In the Dáil on 17 November 2004 statements were allowed on the abduction and murder of Margaret Hassan, an Irish national in Iraq. During the course of those statements I said Margaret Hassan had converted to Islam. This statement was untrue. Margaret Hassan was a devout Catholic who continued to practice her religion during the years she was in Iraq. I wish, therefore, to have the Official Report for the Dáil of 17 November 2004 corrected to indicate that Margaret Hassan had not converted to Islam but was, in fact, a devout and practising Catholic. I regret not having done so prior to this. While her body has never been recovered, I hope some day that will happen and that she will receive a Christian burial.
I thought the Leas-Cheann Comhairle might allow me to speak to the good Deputies here.
A Cheann Comhairle, tá orm a chur in iúl duit gur éirigh mé as oifig mar Thaoiseach inné trína chur sin in iúl don Uachtarán de bhun an Bhunreachta. Yesterday I resigned from the office of Taoiseach by placing my resignation in the hands of the President, pursuant to the Constitution.
Tairgim:Go n-ainmneoidh Dáil Éireann an Teachta Leo Varadkar le bheith ceaptha ag an Uachtarán mar Thaoiseach. I move:That Dáil Éireann nominate Deputy Leo Varadkar for appointment by the President to be Taoiseach. Having worked closely with Deputy Varadkar throughout his political career I am confident that he will carry out the role of An Taoiseach with energy, integrity and skill. From his deep involvement in the Young Fine Gael movement as a young student to his election to Fingal County Council in 2004 and his election to this House, Dáil Éireann, in 2007, Deputy Varadkar has demonstrated the drive and the commitment that are required to succeed in politics. Immediately upon his election to this House I appointed him to the Fine Gael Front Bench, first in the enterprise brief and later as spokesman on energy and communications. In both roles he worked diligently in developing new and innovative policy proposals. Since then I had the privilege of being first elected Taoiseach in 2011 and have had the privilege of appointing Deputy Varadkar to three separate Cabinet positions, as Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport, Minister for Health and more recently as Minister for Social Protection. In each of these Ministries Deputy Varadkar has had significant achievements, whether the revitalisation of the tourism industry, the oversight of The Gathering, stabilising the health service and rolling out free general practitioner, GP, care for children younger than six years or increasing the weekly payments to those dependent on social welfare. In 2011 the Irish people elected a new Government to rescue the economy, to get Ireland working again and Deputy Varadkar in his Ministries was central to that work. Today our country is in a much stronger position than previously, the troika has left, unemployment has fallen dramatically and the public finances are in very good shape. However, many challenges remain, not least in areas such as health and housing and child poverty. We must continue to manage the economy carefully so that it generates the resources that we need to rebuild our essential public services. As Taoiseach, Deputy Varadkar will meet these challenges head on, including Brexit and Ireland's future place in the European Union. As the country's youngest holder of this office he will speak for a new generation of Irishwomen and Irishmen. He represents a modern, diverse and inclusive Ireland and will speak for it like no other, an Ireland in which each person can fulfil his or her potential and live his or her dreams. I wish Deputy Varadkar and his team every success in the challenges that lie ahead. I have no doubt but that he will build on the solid foundations on which our country now stands and that he will see that it is managed carefully in the people's interests and that the decisions his Government will make will always hold the people as central to those decisions. I therefore commend his name to the House for selection as Taoiseach of Ireland.
Go raibh maith agat, a Cheann Comhairle. Nach iontach ar fad go bhfuil slua mór anseo inniu. Ba mhaith liom a chur in iúl duit, a Cheann Comhairle, tar éis ghnó na Dála seo, go mbeidh mé ag dul amach go hÁras an Uachtaráin, go dtabharfaidh mé litir ag éirí as an bpost seo chuig an Uachtarán agus go mbeidh sé sin ag dul i bhfeidhm láithreach.I was hoping that having said that much, I could leave quickly and quietly but the business of the Dáil is such that I no longer have any control over how it is to be conducted. The prospect of making a speech or listening to them, either of glorification or flagellation, is not something that I really relish because this has never been about me. It has always been about the problems and challenges our people and country face. That said, I am very happy to have the opportunity to thank the Ceann Comhairle, his predecessors and all the staff of the House for their assistance and unfailing courtesy not just over the last six years as Taoiseach but over the past 42 years since I have been a Member of the House. It was Teddy Roosevelt who said "Far and away the best prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard at work worth doing." I have been truly blessed I have had that chance. I am eternally grateful to the Irish people and particularly the people of Mayo for repeatedly giving me that opportunity. I really believe that politics is work worth doing, a noble profession. Despite the many scandals and disappointments, I believe the vast majority of people elected to this House are here because we have an interest in and love for our communities and country and we wish to make a difference. For me, cynicism is always an easy cop-out. The true measure of worth and courage is to keep trying again and again, knowing that much of that effort will go unrewarded. I understand the people's disillusionment with politics and the political process. I believe that a first step towards overcoming that might be for us as politicians to treat one other with a greater degree of respect. We can argue vehemently the merits of issues or measures without questioning one another's motives or intent. Politics is always about people and government is always about making decisions. For my own part, I am the first to acknowledge I have not got everything right but I can honestly say my motivation was always what I believed was in the best interests of the Irish people. I thank my colleagues in government for their efforts and support in trying to make an unprecedented and difficult situation work. I also wish to recognise the contributions of the Members opposite, of the Fianna Fáil Party with their leader, Deputy Micheál Martin. It would be remiss of me not to mention the Labour Party for its enormous contribution to the success of the last Government, which under the leadership of Eamon Gilmore and Deputy Joan Burton, with the central involvement of the current leader of the Labour Party, Deputy Brendan Howlin, played a critical role in the rescue of the economy. I thank them all for that. To my party colleagues, I want to say it has been a privilege and a pleasure to have had the opportunity to lead the party for 15 years, and the last six years in government. I wish them all good health to continue the work to overcome and deal with the many challenges that lie ahead.  I passed through Strade recently, which is the birthplace and final resting place of Michael Davitt. To paraphrase what he said in his will to the Irish people, to all my friends I leave kind thoughts, to others I express my fullest forgiveness and to Ireland my undying prayer for absolute freedom and independence, which it has always been my ambition to achieve for her. I hope that in the two Governments I have led, we have made a modest contribution towards that ambition. 
Deputy Martin is asking what action the Government took on the basis of the circumstances in which we found ourselves in 2011. Some €20 billion had been invested by the taxpayer. Jobs were haemorrhaging by the tens of thousands, interest rates on money borrowed by the country were 15% and unemployment was rising. We set out to improve that position, and that is what has happened in terms of the interest rates on the promissory note and the leverage we have at a European level. As I said, €20 billion of taxpayers' money was put into what was supposed to be the greatest deal of all, that is, a €64 billion debt burden on our people. We recovered €6.6 billion through capital repayments, interest, income and fees. The State still owns 99.9% of the ordinary share capital and a further €0.2 billion has been paid to the State through the bank levy. The primary objective of the State was to recover all of the investment from AIB. The Minister for Finance believes that is a realistic objective over a period of time. I said to Deputy Martin yesterday that the sale of the bank shares would not result in any beneficial impact on the general Government balance as it would not be counted as revenue. Therefore, there is no increased capacity to spend. The proceeds from any IPO would be used to pay down debt, and the Minister has made that perfectly clear. We are now in the process of being in a much stronger position than we were, with almost full employment, and the deficit is to be eliminated next year. There are serious challenges in terms of the level of personal debt that applies.  The negotiations are now beginning, with the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, on an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement and a review of the capital programme. Significant amounts of money still remain unallocated. The Government has made decisions on the unprecedented levels of money available for dealing with the housing crisis.  As I have pointed out, the Government has made decisions to work with the European Investment Bank on further, long-term, low interest funds for major pieces of infrastructure. The challenges ahead are ones the Government is already looking at, not in the way Governments of the past looked at the development of a spatial strategy. People on this side wrote down 53 towns to be developed, but nothing ever happened.  Ireland will increase its population by 1 million people over the next number of years and we will need 500,000 houses. We have to consider how those people will be transported. The Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment is delivering elements of the programme for broadband and a national contract is to be issued for that next year. There is a contract in place with Eir for the provision of fibre broadband to homes in many places. The Minister has been very clear that now is the optimum time to dispose of a portion of AIB, leaving the State with a very significant holding. Obviously, advice was received on a constant basis but the opportunity did not present itself in the way it does now. It is not a case of not examining the infrastructure requirements we have. They are very big priorities for Government. In this particular case, as has been pointed out, it is a transaction that does not result in any increased spending money and will, therefore, be used to write down debt, as the Minister has confirmed on many occasions.
The Minister for Finance has repeatedly identified the particular demographics of this country having regard to these rules. Money has to be paid back and capital is treated differently from current funding. It is not a case of not focusing on the priorities we have all identified. The Government has put forward €5 billion for housing.
The problem here is to get the system moving from the total collapse of a number of years ago to provide the number of houses, social and everything else, that is now needed. The Minister has raised the question of the treatment of capital at European level in his discussions with finance ministers but it has to be paid back. I know Deputy Martin supports the proportionate sale of AIB here. Obviously, the question of demographics has been raised by us repeatedly and we have identified the kind of country we would like to see and the infrastructure it will require over the next ten, 15 and 20 years. There is a need for increased capital expenditure, but one has to have the engine of an economy to drive that. Clearly from a European point of view, investments that will come from the loan process with the European Investment Bank will have a significant impact on some of the very major infrastructure projects that lie ahead.
I am not sure what kind of speech that is. I thank the Deputy for his words. If I recall properly, I remember Deputy Adams as president of his party, coming in here week after week saying we should default.
His mantra was "burn the bondholders" and he was opposed to everything European. He campaigned actively against nine referenda in which the Irish people voted.
He was opposed bitterly to having the taxpayer put money into AIB and now he is opposed to getting the money back. That is consistency I suppose from the leader of Sinn Féin.
I have not mentioned the Northern Bank. I am not sure if it was Irish money or sterling but I did not mention the Northern Bank. Deputy Adams has been consistent about burning bondholders-----
-----that Ireland should default, that our economy would never recover, that we are a Third World country and that nothing was ever right here. I do not know if he even sees the sun shining on these summer days. The previous Government and this one have continued the process of rectifying an unholy and unprecedented mess that was inherited. We have dealt with that-----
-----to the point that the country is in a much stronger position than it was previously.
There are still many challenges ahead and I hope the Government continues to do its duty in office. It will focus entirely on decisions that will be made in the interests of the people. This is one decision that is in the interests of the people. The Minister has taken advice over a long period and the optimum time is now. The economic circumstances are very good and this is a test of the value - it will be floated on the stock exchange - of what a 25% offering for AIB will bring in. Over the next decade or so, it will bring about a situation in which private banking offers competition in the interests of a strong economy and an opportunity for people. Deputy Adams can stick with his mantra. He spoke to me last week about long goodbyes and I offered to wait for him. I understand the movement is now asserting that Deputy Adams should stand up and make a declaration as to his future intentions also.
I thank him for his consistency. I do not share his view. This is the right thing to do with AIB and now is the right time to do it.
We favour a situation where the bank would be restored to being a private banking enterprise and where it would provide competition in the interests of the country. If I recall correctly, another of the Deputy's mantras was that the troika should be sent home.
I agree because one of the saddest days I attended here was the day our sovereignty was taken from us-----
-----when the late Minister for Finance and the former Taoiseach walked off the Government stage and were replaced by the troika, led by Mr. Chopra. The call was that they should be sent home. They are gone. The previous Government was in a position to exit the bailout programme, despite the fact that people had stated we could not do it and that very difficult conditions would be imposed.
They have left our shores and we have retrieved our sovereignty and restored our economic independence. Furthermore, we have also given the flag back to the people with a new sense of understanding and respect. Deputy Gerry Adams says this is in the interests of the bankers. There were 225,000 new jobs created in the past few years. The young men and young women of this country work to build our economy and international reputation and send the brand image that we are not afraid to face up to our challenges or make hard decisions and that we are not afraid to make sacrifices in the interests of everybody. While we have many challenges ahead, we are in a much better position than we were. Had we followed the Deputy's line, I hate to think where we would be now.
We have had a lot of discussions about this issue already. The Government made the decision, which the Houses accepted, that the Charleton inquiry should be set up. As I pointed out to Deputy Mick Barry yesterday, the appointment of Mr. Justice Charleton was exceptionally appropriate, having dealt with the Morris tribunal for over a decade in County Donegal. I prefer to let him and his commission do their work. I do not know whether the allegation about the particular phone being missing is true or not, but the justice has set out the timescale and the hearings that are to take place. There will be public hearings of the commission in July on this very issue. The Committee of Public Accounts is meeting this morning and I have heard some of the comments made about the discrepancies in some of the contributions being made. Be that as it may, the House has set up a commission of investigation, a tribunal, to deal with this matter and no better person than Mr. Justice Charleton to deal with it. The Deputy's question about the previous Commissioner was the subject of a full-scale commission of investigation which made its judgment and ruling. Obviously, the current Commissioner is one of the people whom I named yesterday as having legal representation at the Charleton inquiry. The hearings will take place in public in July, which is not too far distant. I expect Mr. Justice Charleton to find out the veracity of the allegations, the facts and the truth. That is why he was appointed.
The Deputy completely underestimates the capacity of Mr. Justice Charleton who is the sole member in charge of a full tribunal. He is not the kind of person who will be led astray by filtered information. Believe me, if the Deputy is suggesting the tribunal liaison group is deliberately filtering information to him that is either irrelevant or not meaningful, he is not the kind of person who will let it pass by.I have every faith in Mr. Justice Charleton doing 100% of what he has been appointed to do. He is not the type of person to accept information that might be filtered or which he might be asked to accept as being the full truth. His job is to find that out and I have 100% faith in him doing that. The people who appear before him had better be very clear in the answers they give him.
How long do I have, a Cheann Comhairle?
I thank Deputy Grealish for his kind comments. I hope to see him in Pearse Stadium on Sunday week and I hope he will be as kind to me then when we take to the field. I have absolutely no regrets about having appointed Deputy Simon Coveney and Deputy Leo Varadkar as Ministers. They are two fine young men who have a real opportunity-----
They might not have been my supporters when my friend Richard took to the field some years ago. Be that as it may, I was happy to appoint them to Front Bench positions, to watch them grow as Ministers and to bring about a situation where they have actively and vigorously campaigned around the country for the last number of weeks for the right to lead this party. Whatever the decision of the Fine Gael electorate is, I hope that whoever is elected leader of the party will continue in government and will always make decisions in the interests of our people. Every decision it makes and every step the Government takes should be about the country and the people. I am sure that is deeply embedded in their political philosophy. From my perspective, I have been a Member of the House for a long time. I have seen all the tensions and all the outbreaks of viciousness and sometimes fisticuffs when people were being either moved on after elections or shoved out the gate. I have always made it clear that instinct is important for politicians and, indeed, sports people. After 42 years in the House, 13 elections, 15 years as leader of a major party and six years as Taoiseach, I am happy to be in a position to transfer responsibility to a younger generation. That is important in all walks of life. As for advice, it is a little later than people think and there is no time to waste. When the new Government is appointed, in whatever structure that might be, it must get on with challenges we face of keeping our economy moving, dealing with child poverty and homelessness, the provision of employment and creating the infrastructure we spoke about for the people who will live in this country over the next 30 or 40 years. As for regrets, I do not have any. Anybody who holds the position of Taoiseach had better have an optimistic and positive outlook. There is no point in going around looking like one is weighed down with the problems of the world.
They existed before us and one must deal with them head-on and make the best decisions one can. I recall the Latin adage,  I thank Deputy Grealish for his comments. I appreciate them.
I appreciate the Deputy's comments. I will pass them on to somebody who is absolutely delighted.
I agree with the Deputy that boxing is not in crisis. The sports capital system has supported boxing clubs during the terms of Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael Governments over the years. The number of young boys and girls involved in boxing as a discipline, science and sport continues to increase. On Monday, I was in the north inner city and visited Ballybough Boxing Club. It has brand new facilities and really good coaches and it is doing a wonderful job. I am a big supporter of Bernard Dunne. He is a wonderful example to young people. He rose to become world champion in his weight division. I hope the personalities involved in the matter raised by the Deputy can work this out. As the Deputy rightly pointed out, Irish boxers have been very successful in many Olympic Games. Ireland is recognised by other countries as being outstanding in this regard and one of the top countries in the world. I hope, therefore, that the powers that be, or the personalities within the IABA, along with the Minister of State dealing with this, Deputy Patrick O'Donovan, and the Minister, Deputy Shane Ross, can come to an understanding that is in the interest of thousands of young people and in order that there will be a body that works in everybody's interest. After all, the Deputy's Government and a succession of Governments have put money into the facilities in Dublin and around the country. Through these, young people learn discipline, character formation and the science of boxing, if that is what they love. It is a sport in which they can rise to be world champions in their respective weight divisions. The Deputy's message is one that I fully understand.
This is an important judgment by the Supreme Court. The Tánaiste, Deputy Frances Fitzgerald, and the Minister of State with direct responsibility in this area, Deputy David Stanton, have done a lot of work on this. Within the past month, before this judgment, they asked their officials to begin work to identify the options for and the barriers to asylum seekers gaining access to the labour market in particular circumstances. This judgment, therefore, gives this work increased priority. As the judgment has only just become available, as the Deputy is aware, the Department of Justice and Equality officials, together with the Office of the Attorney General, will examine it in the immediate future. It is important to note that the International Protection Act, which introduces the single application procedure for protection applicants, was brought through the Oireachtas by the Tánaiste and commenced on 30 December 2016. That is important legislation. The new Act is specifically designed to address the delays in decision-making on asylum claims. Since the beginning of the year, applications have already been decided with applicants having been recognised as refugees who can access the labour market now. Overall, 92% of the 173 recommendations in the McMahon report are now implemented or partially implemented, or are in progress. That is a significant increase on the figure of 80% in the first audit of progress, which was published last June. One hundred and twenty-one of the recommendations are now implemented, with a further 38 partially implemented or in progress. It includes the key recommendation of the working group, that is, the one on the introduction of the single application procedure within our international protection process. I do not have any difficulty at all in saying to the Deputy that the Minister of State, Deputy Stanton, in particular, will be happy to engage with Opposition Members to discuss the outcome of the ruling of the Supreme Court. I expect that once officials from the Office of the Attorney General and the Department of Justice and Equality have gone through the judgment in detail, the Minister of State will be very happy to have a discussion with Opposition Members and move on in the context of the findings of the Supreme Court.
I will have to come back to Deputy Howlin on this to give him an update. I will do so today.
I shall ask the Minister of State, Deputy Catherine Byrne, to deal with that.
They did very well.
I am glad that the Deputy was listening to the contributions of two very able young Ministers. That is good. It shows that the Deputy is following through on his political decision not to be promiscuous and will support getting back into government-----
That is very good. The homemaker's tax credit was increased in the budget. The Minister for Children and Youth Affairs, Deputy Katherine Zappone, has commented that she would like to see it increased further in recognition of the value of people caring in the home. I do not want to pronounce further on it at this point. Obviously, with regard to the shape and structure of the new Government, the matter will be addressed in the preparation of the budget for 2018.
I thank the Deputy for his comments. Both Enterprise Ireland and IDA Ireland were given the resources and the opportunity to recruit extra personnel. Detailed negotiations on Brexit have not yet started-----
-----as the Deputy is aware following Mr. Barnier's contribution in this House. As required, IDA Ireland will identify the particular expertise it needs and where it should be located. That work is under way.
The line of investment into the country is very strong. I will travel to Chicago early next week on a trade mission to continue that work. As the Deputy is aware, the agencies have been very successful. The extra personnel approved will be recruited, but IDA Ireland looks for particular characteristics and qualities in the people it employs.
I hope more people will be employed by it this year, as well as by Enterprise Ireland to assist companies which are exporting.
I admit that we have not brought the matter to a conclusion. I am sorry about that, but let me see what we can do in the time remaining to me. In fairness to the Deputy, he has raised it consistently. I know that there are discussions taking place between the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform and the Department of Health on the cost and structure of the scheme, but they have drifted for too long without reaching finality.
I will inquire about this. It is not just a case of them lying there. There are matters to be attended to before they can be signed off on. I will get back to the Deputy. Let us have an analysis of the entire scale, not just in the Department of Justice and Equality but in other Departments where legislation dealt with has not been commenced.
The situation regarding recruitment has changed. There is a very active recruitment drive with young nurses now being offered permanent contracts. I am not sure of the details of what the Deputy is referring to in respect of only temporary contracts being offered. I will discuss this with the Minister and come back to her. I take her point about the lady who gave birth at the hospital. I am glad her baby is well.
I will ask the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, who has the detail of this, to respond to the Deputy's query.
It is not a case of allocating funding for a strategic development zone. As he is aware, strategic development zones mean that there are expedited planning permissions. The detail of the strategic development zone in this case outlines the kinds of development that can take place within the almost 500 acres allocated for the zone around the entire airport facility. The local authority has already produced its local plan, which was the advice received a number of years ago, and the proposition through the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government was that the Government should now back this with approval for a strategic development zone. It is not a case of saying here is a certain amount of money. We now have the opportunity to follow through the development of that local authority plan with expedited planning permissions and business and commerce associated with the airline business, be that hangars or hotels. There is a range of issues that can now be followed through and put in that development zone. It is not a grant system that provides a certain amount of money. It is a case of everybody following the board of the local authority and business interests.
We have had some conversations at the Cabinet sub-committee on various viruses and their outcomes. I will get the Minister for Health and the HSE to respond to the Deputy on this matter. I am not sure whether the incidence in County Kerry is any higher than in any other county but it is a very serious ailment and a challenge for a person when they are so afflicted.
No.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 3, inclusive, together. My Department, as outlined in the strategy statement, provides support services for the Taoiseach and the Government. As part of this service, the parliamentary liaison unit was established to perform a liaison function to help ensure that Ministers and Departments are properly and fully informed of new responsibilities and procedures in the Thirty-second Dáil. The unit provides support to Ministers and their Departments on Oireachtas matters with a particular emphasis on assisting Departments with Private Members' business. It provides Departments with detailed information on the rules and procedures with regard to Private Members' business. In performing this function, the unit liaises on a regular basis with advisers to the Independent members of Government, including the chief strategist for the Independent Alliance and the political co-ordinator for the Independent Ministers in Government, to ensure that they are informed of Oireachtas issues and to assist them in engaging with the new processes arising from the Dáil reform changes. In this regard, the parliamentary liaison unit provides detailed information on upcoming matters in the Dáil and Seanad and highlights any new Oireachtas reform issues for their information.
For the information of Deputy Haughey who asked this question previously, arrangements have been made by the Government, which has a different structure of government than any previously in a situation where there is a supply and confidence agreement with the Deputy's party, with Deputy Micheál Martin as leader, and which is set out to be followed. The same applies in the case of the Independent Alliance and any others who support the Government. All of these have been published. This liaison unit does not have anything to do with that. It is staffed by a principal officer, a higher executive officer and a clerical officer. As I said, it provides support for Ministers and their Departments on Oireachtas matters with particular emphasis on helping with Private Members' business. As the Deputy will be aware, amendments can be quite complex and detailed and the structures of that are explained to Ministers and their Departments as to what particular amendments might mean. The unit does not have any political function, for example, in dealing with Beaumont Hospital or a new emergency department there. That is an arrangement that has been agreed, between, in this case, the Minister of State, Deputy Finian McGrath, and the Government, and to fulfil that it must be able to be the subject of discussion by the Minister for Health and the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, and be in compliance with best practice. However, they all have been published. When Deputy Haughey states there is a need for transparency, openness and accountability, I share that view. The Deputy is long enough in the game to understand that people will jump at the first sign of seeking credit for issues that might just happen. Of course, anybody in politics who looks for credit anyway is a fool because the public will move on to the next item very quickly indeed-----
-----not that Deputy Haughey ever sought that kind of shallow outcome for his politics. All these aspect are published and the staff involved comprises, as I stated, a principal officer, a higher executive officer and clerical officer. They do not have a political policy function. They explain the workings of the new changed Dáil, including Private Members' time and Private Members' legislation, and explain to Ministers the detailed rules and procedures that now surround Private Members' business.
In respect of the issue that the Deputy raises, it is important when an election is over that the judgment given by the people is then considered carefully to see is it possible to put a government together. It took some time to put this one together last year. It is a Government of the Fine Gael Party supported by the Independent Alliance, a number of Independents in Cabinet and some others outside, and of course, the main Opposition party, Fianna Fáil, in respect of a confidence and supply agreement. Part of the discussions that took place at the outset was about a change in the way that members of the Judiciary are appointed. Deputy Nolan will appreciate that the Constitution is clear in that the Government makes the appointments and the Cabinet must have choices when making those appointments.Part of the discussions with the Independent Alliance was about the nature of that structure. As the Deputies are aware, the Judicial Appointments Advisory Board, JAAB, has been around for quite a number of years. That board assesses the credentials, legal experience and the kinds of cases that candidates may have heard to determine their suitability for appointment to the District Court, Circuit Court, High Court, Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court. What was approved yesterday by Government was the Judicial Appointments Bill which will now proceed through the Houses and hopefully become law this year. The other Bill in respect of the conduct and the oversight of conduct by members of the Judiciary is the Judicial Council Bill.  This does not represent a Minister stepping outside his brief. In this case, the Minister, Deputy Ross, working with his group of Deputies, said that this was an issue that they considered to be very important. It became a focus of discussion between the parties in terms of including it in the programme for Government. That is why it is there in the published document. In the case of Waterford, this was not an issue that came out of the blue suddenly. There was a very particular letter issued by the Minister for Health, Deputy Harris, which had been considered very carefully by the medical personnel in Waterford. The Minister has responded with a mobile unit providing cardiac facilities in Waterford.
Not yet, no. There are other issues which were also discussed, all of which were published.
It is not that there were any secret deals done here. We had a situation, before Deputy Carol Nolan came into this House, where a deal was done with a particular Independent Deputy who used to say that it was worth "milluns" but nobody ever saw what was in it. That meant that whatever arrived in tír na ríthe down in the south could be claimed as being part of the agreement and the deal. All these points have been published and the unit just provides the procedural, detailed information for Deputies, Ministers and their Departments.
Well, his name is Shane Ross, not Walter Mitty. I must say that his brief carries him into stormy as well as calm waters. As someone who has been a national journalist for many years, he has learned a good deal about the responsibilities of politics at ministerial level. I am very happy with the way that he goes about his business. In respect of what Deputy Howlin said, he will be aware from his own experience that Cabinet operates on the basis of collective responsibility. All the candidates whose names came to Cabinet were deemed to be experienced, professionally competent and suitable to be nominated to the particular bench to which they applied. It is not a case of somebody going through the file and the experience of each nominee-----
These have been assessed and cleared by the JAAB.
I can confirm to Deputy Howlin that when the nominees were presented by the Minister for Justice and Equality, they were accepted in the normal way by the Cabinet, unanimously and without any comment. I do not want to say anything about newspaper reports and analysis. All the nominees were cleared by the JAAB as being competent and professional. The new Bill, when it is passed, will reduce the number of nominees for each position but it will still be the responsibility of Cabinet, under the Constitution, to make the choices. I acknowledge the mobile unit is not yet in place. Obviously, the Minister for Health is conscious of that fact and is working on the matter. That was the outcome of the discussions that were held with the Minister of State, Deputy Halligan, at the time.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 4 to 6, inclusive, together. I have restructured my Department to ensure that Brexit is treated as a crucial cross-cutting issue by creating an amalgamated international, EU and Northern Ireland division under a second Secretary General who also acts as the Government's Sherpa for EU business, including Brexit. The work of this division includes supporting the Cabinet committee on Brexit and the Cabinet committee on European affairs. There are 32 staff assigned to this division. The international, EU and Northern Ireland division comprises three sections.The international section advises me on international policy and supports me in my international engagements with a particular focus on driving economic growth, trade, investment and job creation, as well as protecting and strengthening Ireland’s strategic relationships, interests and reputation overseas. The EU section supports me in my role as a member of the European Council and provides a coherent, whole-of-Government strategic direction on priority EU policies, including on Brexit. The Britain and Northern Ireland affairs section supports my work and the work of the Government in helping to maintain peace and to develop new relationships on the island of Ireland and between Britain and Ireland. This section supports me and the Government in ensuring there is a whole-of-Government response to the UK’s decision to leave the EU and the implications of that decision for Northern Ireland and the British-Irish relationship. Staff in other divisions also contribute to the work on Brexit. For example, the economic policy division advises me on economic policy aimed at supporting sustainable economic growth, with a particular focus on jobs and competitiveness, including possible economic impacts of Brexit. I have three special advisers, including my chief of staff. The Government Chief Whip has two special advisers. The Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs, the EU digital single market and data protection has one special adviser, whose salary is paid by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The Minister of State with responsibility for defence has two special advisers, both of whom are paid by the Department of Defence. The Minister of State with responsibility for the diaspora has no special adviser. Although they are not special advisers, the chief strategist for the Independent Alliance and the political co-ordinator for Independent Ministers are also based in my Department.
I can supply Deputy Martin with the audit he mentioned. I will forward him the numbers we have in terms of the appointments of diplomats and other staff who are working in different places. The Deputy made the point previously that it may become necessary to recruit or appoint people with particular experience, for instance, in trade and in the complex issues involved in that area. There is a willingness that when it becomes necessary, we can and will do that. When the issue was raised about Enterprise Ireland and IDA Ireland, as I said, they look for particular types of people, but these negotiations have not started. Deputy Howlin is right on this. We still have a great deal of information to get from those with whom we will negotiate. Deputy Howlin made the point about knowing the thinking of people at a European level. From his experience and from that of Deputy Martin as a former Minister, it is about the building of relationships that last over a long period.
At the end of the day, this Brexit business will have to be decided by the European Council and every country represented on it has a veto. If issues arise that are not acceptable, as I have no doubt they will-----
It has got to be agreed at the European Council.
Yes, but if somebody at the European Council will not accept the outcome of the deal, we will have a real problem. Deputy Howlin made a point about knowing the thinking of other European colleagues, and it takes time to build those relationships, but, as he is aware, it comes down to the European Council's decision, it is the Heads of Government who will make the ultimate decision. I take the Deputy's comments in the spirit that he made them. The presentation of our priorities, as we see them, without having all of the information in so far as what the British Government's thinking is on this, have been reflected in the Commission, Parliament and Council. However, as the Deputy pointed out, in terms of having as close as possible a working relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which is what we have now as a member of the European Union, that will be changed by virtue of the fact that the Single Market will be gone and the trading status will be changed. Therefore, when we go around that loop and come back to where we started we will be in a different position. Even if no tariffs will apply in terms of trade, we will still have two different jurisdictions and the complications that would involve are obvious. An Open Skies arrangement will have to be drawn up between the European Union and the United Kingdom, otherwise, aircraft will not be able to take off from here and land in London and go on to collect other passengers. That is an issue that needs to be dealt with and it is being worked upon now. We cannot wait for divorce to be concluded to do that.  The three issues identified by Michael Barnier here and agreed by Europe are the border, modalities and liabilities in terms of what the bill might be and the question of citizen's rights and reciprocal rights. All these matters, as was rightly said, were never put to the people in a way that they would have had a real discussion about understanding them. That is why our common travel area, which has been in place for 90 years covering travel, residence and the right to work and to draw social benefits, is a bilateral arrangement between Ireland and the UK and it is different with respect to rights of the Polish people or Lithuanians or Latvians who live in Great Britain. The European position is that if we want to have a parallel discussion begun, where we get into the meat of trade, we will have to make substantial progress in respect of the first three issues. I hear comments from some people across the water to the effect that progress will not be made on this, which clearly will lead to other complications.
I take the Deputy's point. A no deal situation would be catastrophic for Ireland in, for example, the beef and agrifood sectors. Deputy Nolan spoke about the Brexit position. We did not cause this, we were not responsible for it and we did not want it but we have to deal with it. In respecting the vote of the British electorate, clearly, the issues that are priority have been set out for us. Dr. Pfeiffer is perfectly entitled to his opinion but this is decided at the European Council from a European point of view. One can have all the opinions, all the ideas and all the propositions one wants but at the end of the day, political leaders have to make decisions and the choices sometimes are not very palatable. That is why we were happy to get unanimous support from all the other 26 member states to say that Ireland's priorities are understood and Ireland's unique position is understood. We should remember that Brexit does not interfere with the Good Friday Agreement and we will not let it interfere with it. The Agreement was signed 19 years before Brexit ever became a reality.
Thank you. In recognising the visionaries of the Good Friday Agreement, we have had support from Europe, in that, if the Agreement is ever implemented in full, that is, with a vote for consent by the democratic decision of people to join the Republic, the entire Island would be recognised as an entity of the European Union in full without having to reapply for membership.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 9, inclusive, together. We are confident that the European Council’s adoption of the EU’s negotiating guidelines on 29 April gives Ireland its strongest hand going into these complex negotiations. The unique circumstances of Ireland have been recognised as part of the negotiations from the outset.  The Government’s priority here has been to ensure that the unique circumstances on the island of Ireland, including the Good Friday Agreement which already exists, are recognised and protected within the context of the Article 50 negotiations leading to a withdrawal agreement. The Good Friday Agreement is an internationally recognised treaty, legally binding and registered with the UN. This is a key distinguishing factor regarding what is a unique political and constitutional framework on the island of Ireland. As the Government has consistently said, the only way for us to influence this process and protect our national interests, including with regard to Northern Ireland and the common travel area, is to win the understanding and support of EU partners for Ireland’s unique concerns. From the outset, these concerns have been recognised as part of the negotiation guidelines, and we have achieved this understanding through the extensive programme of outreach and engagement undertaken with our EU partners. There will be a separate agreement on the UK’s future relationship with the EU, which is likely to cover a broad range of policy areas, including trade, and which is likely to take longer to conclude than the EU-UK exit agreement. Depending on the nature of this agreement, which is subject to negotiations, approval by each member state may be required in accordance with their own domestic procedures. It is also important to remember that the future relationship agreement will require ratification by all 27 member states, including Ireland. An EU-UK exit agreement will be approved by a majority in the European Council, therefore no one member state will be in a position to block or veto a deal. Even if it were possible to veto a deal, it would not mean that the UK would not leave because under Article 50, it would simply mean that the UK would depart without appropriate arrangements in place.
I will answer the last question first and the answer is "Yes". As the Deputy is aware from sitting very close to where Mr. Barnier spoke, this is one of the three priorities that needs to be dealt with. The first priority is the question of modalities and liabilities and the charge on the United Kingdom for leaving the European Union. This refers to a range of issues where contracts are in place or moneys are paid out of the European budget. There will be a difficulty in that if there is a €12 billion hole in the budget on a yearly basis, who is going to pay the extra or what programmes will be cut? Mr. Barnier stated that no country currently contributing to the European Union budget wants to pay any more and all of those in receipt of capital, grants and so on from the European Union do not want to receive any less. There will be a real problem if that is the scale of what is involved. The Deputy asked if the matter was discussed and it was. Mr. Barnier is a negotiator for Ireland and the Border is one of the first priorities. One of the second priorities relates to the rights of citizens and reciprocal rights for people from the UK living in the EU and  Deputy Howlin set out the position about the majority, equating to 72% of member states and 65% of the population. He is correct in that it would be a hollow victory. We do not want to have the case of negotiations coming to a finality at the European Council and finding ourselves stranded. That is why we have people on the negotiating task force who are in very close contact with our committee of permanent representatives to the EU, COREPER, and sherpa people in Brussels, so we know what is going on at all times in respect of the negotiating stances. I take the point of Deputies Howlin and Donnelly that it is very important for us in building those relationships to have our position cleared very early on. In fairness, most of the other European countries may not have as much interest as we do in Brexit because we are so close to Britain and for so many other reasons but they will become very interested if the hole in the budget will have an impact on programmes and structures in their countries. They might not have associated that with Brexit but if scheme X or Y is cut back or abolished altogether, people could become very interested politically. I agree with the sentiments that we need to do the work now and this will absorb so much political time from so many leaders over the next number of years. It need never have happened but it has happened.
I made a very clear decision that we should not appoint a Brexit Minister as the European Council leaders are the ones who make the decision. The European Parliament must pass the outcome and the Singapore agreement also has an impact. These mixed agreements mean the European Union has competence in some areas but individual and regional parliaments must ratify the matters at the end of the day. We have some really good people operating in London, Brussels and throughout Europe generally. They are very competent and fully focused. Whoever is the new leader of the Fine Gael Party - I hope he will become Taoiseach, with whatever structure of Government is involved - will have at his disposal all that expertise on a constant basis and be really fully informed. It will be up to that person to build relationships with the individual leaders, who seem to change on a pretty regular basis at a European level. In my experience anyway, every second or third European Council meeting has another two or three people I might not have seen before because elections take place on a very regular and irregular basis throughout Europe. I wish the best to whomever the party selects as leader. I hope it will be a focus in putting together a Government.I will finish by saying-----
-----the agenda for the European Union goes beyond Brexit. It also includes the Single Market, the digital single market, Economic and Monetary Union, opportunities to create jobs and for investment and very effective trade negotiations with other countries, including the United States and Canada and others towards the east, leading to the creation of millions of jobs. Brexit is not the be-all and end-all, but it is a real problem. While we must deal with it, we must also think beyond it
Gabh mo leithscéal. The Leas-Cheann Comhairle will not have me to deal with for too long more.
Thank you for your generosity and flexibility.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 3, inclusive, together. My Department, as outlined in the strategy statement, provides support services for the Taoiseach and the Government. As part of this service, the parliamentary liaison unit was established to perform a liaison function to help ensure that Ministers and Departments are properly and fully informed of new responsibilities and procedures in the Thirty-second Dáil. The unit provides support to Ministers and their Departments on Oireachtas matters with a particular emphasis on assisting Departments with Private Members' business. It provides Departments with detailed information on the rules and procedures with regard to Private Members' business. In performing this function, the unit liaises on a regular basis with advisers to the Independent members of Government, including the chief strategist for the Independent Alliance and the political co-ordinator for the Independent Ministers in Government, to ensure that they are informed of Oireachtas issues and to assist them in engaging with the new processes arising from the Dáil reform changes. In this regard, the parliamentary liaison unit provides detailed information on upcoming matters in the Dáil and Seanad and highlights any new Oireachtas reform issues for their information.
For the information of Deputy Haughey who asked this question previously, arrangements have been made by the Government, which has a different structure of government than any previously in a situation where there is a supply and confidence agreement with the Deputy's party, with Deputy Micheál Martin as leader, and which is set out to be followed. The same applies in the case of the Independent Alliance and any others who support the Government. All of these have been published. This liaison unit does not have anything to do with that. It is staffed by a principal officer, a higher executive officer and a clerical officer. As I said, it provides support for Ministers and their Departments on Oireachtas matters with particular emphasis on helping with Private Members' business. As the Deputy will be aware, amendments can be quite complex and detailed and the structures of that are explained to Ministers and their Departments as to what particular amendments might mean. The unit does not have any political function, for example, in dealing with Beaumont Hospital or a new emergency department there. That is an arrangement that has been agreed, between, in this case, the Minister of State, Deputy Finian McGrath, and the Government, and to fulfil that it must be able to be the subject of discussion by the Minister for Health and the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, and be in compliance with best practice. However, they all have been published. When Deputy Haughey states there is a need for transparency, openness and accountability, I share that view. The Deputy is long enough in the game to understand that people will jump at the first sign of seeking credit for issues that might just happen. Of course, anybody in politics who looks for credit anyway is a fool because the public will move on to the next item very quickly indeed-----
-----not that Deputy Haughey ever sought that kind of shallow outcome for his politics. All these aspect are published and the staff involved comprises, as I stated, a principal officer, a higher executive officer and clerical officer. They do not have a political policy function. They explain the workings of the new changed Dáil, including Private Members' time and Private Members' legislation, and explain to Ministers the detailed rules and procedures that now surround Private Members' business.
In respect of the issue that the Deputy raises, it is important when an election is over that the judgment given by the people is then considered carefully to see is it possible to put a government together. It took some time to put this one together last year. It is a Government of the Fine Gael Party supported by the Independent Alliance, a number of Independents in Cabinet and some others outside, and of course, the main Opposition party, Fianna Fáil, in respect of a confidence and supply agreement. Part of the discussions that took place at the outset was about a change in the way that members of the Judiciary are appointed. Deputy Nolan will appreciate that the Constitution is clear in that the Government makes the appointments and the Cabinet must have choices when making those appointments.Part of the discussions with the Independent Alliance was about the nature of that structure. As the Deputies are aware, the Judicial Appointments Advisory Board, JAAB, has been around for quite a number of years. That board assesses the credentials, legal experience and the kinds of cases that candidates may have heard to determine their suitability for appointment to the District Court, Circuit Court, High Court, Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court. What was approved yesterday by Government was the Judicial Appointments Bill which will now proceed through the Houses and hopefully become law this year. The other Bill in respect of the conduct and the oversight of conduct by members of the Judiciary is the Judicial Council Bill.  This does not represent a Minister stepping outside his brief. In this case, the Minister, Deputy Ross, working with his group of Deputies, said that this was an issue that they considered to be very important. It became a focus of discussion between the parties in terms of including it in the programme for Government. That is why it is there in the published document. In the case of Waterford, this was not an issue that came out of the blue suddenly. There was a very particular letter issued by the Minister for Health, Deputy Harris, which had been considered very carefully by the medical personnel in Waterford. The Minister has responded with a mobile unit providing cardiac facilities in Waterford.
Not yet, no. There are other issues which were also discussed, all of which were published.
It is not that there were any secret deals done here. We had a situation, before Deputy Carol Nolan came into this House, where a deal was done with a particular Independent Deputy who used to say that it was worth "milluns" but nobody ever saw what was in it. That meant that whatever arrived in tír na ríthe down in the south could be claimed as being part of the agreement and the deal. All these points have been published and the unit just provides the procedural, detailed information for Deputies, Ministers and their Departments.
Well, his name is Shane Ross, not Walter Mitty. I must say that his brief carries him into stormy as well as calm waters. As someone who has been a national journalist for many years, he has learned a good deal about the responsibilities of politics at ministerial level. I am very happy with the way that he goes about his business. In respect of what Deputy Howlin said, he will be aware from his own experience that Cabinet operates on the basis of collective responsibility. All the candidates whose names came to Cabinet were deemed to be experienced, professionally competent and suitable to be nominated to the particular bench to which they applied. It is not a case of somebody going through the file and the experience of each nominee-----
These have been assessed and cleared by the JAAB.
I can confirm to Deputy Howlin that when the nominees were presented by the Minister for Justice and Equality, they were accepted in the normal way by the Cabinet, unanimously and without any comment. I do not want to say anything about newspaper reports and analysis. All the nominees were cleared by the JAAB as being competent and professional. The new Bill, when it is passed, will reduce the number of nominees for each position but it will still be the responsibility of Cabinet, under the Constitution, to make the choices. I acknowledge the mobile unit is not yet in place. Obviously, the Minister for Health is conscious of that fact and is working on the matter. That was the outcome of the discussions that were held with the Minister of State, Deputy Halligan, at the time.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 4 to 6, inclusive, together. I have restructured my Department to ensure that Brexit is treated as a crucial cross-cutting issue by creating an amalgamated international, EU and Northern Ireland division under a second Secretary General who also acts as the Government's Sherpa for EU business, including Brexit. The work of this division includes supporting the Cabinet committee on Brexit and the Cabinet committee on European affairs. There are 32 staff assigned to this division. The international, EU and Northern Ireland division comprises three sections.The international section advises me on international policy and supports me in my international engagements with a particular focus on driving economic growth, trade, investment and job creation, as well as protecting and strengthening Ireland’s strategic relationships, interests and reputation overseas. The EU section supports me in my role as a member of the European Council and provides a coherent, whole-of-Government strategic direction on priority EU policies, including on Brexit. The Britain and Northern Ireland affairs section supports my work and the work of the Government in helping to maintain peace and to develop new relationships on the island of Ireland and between Britain and Ireland. This section supports me and the Government in ensuring there is a whole-of-Government response to the UK’s decision to leave the EU and the implications of that decision for Northern Ireland and the British-Irish relationship. Staff in other divisions also contribute to the work on Brexit. For example, the economic policy division advises me on economic policy aimed at supporting sustainable economic growth, with a particular focus on jobs and competitiveness, including possible economic impacts of Brexit. I have three special advisers, including my chief of staff. The Government Chief Whip has two special advisers. The Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs, the EU digital single market and data protection has one special adviser, whose salary is paid by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The Minister of State with responsibility for defence has two special advisers, both of whom are paid by the Department of Defence. The Minister of State with responsibility for the diaspora has no special adviser. Although they are not special advisers, the chief strategist for the Independent Alliance and the political co-ordinator for Independent Ministers are also based in my Department.
I can supply Deputy Martin with the audit he mentioned. I will forward him the numbers we have in terms of the appointments of diplomats and other staff who are working in different places. The Deputy made the point previously that it may become necessary to recruit or appoint people with particular experience, for instance, in trade and in the complex issues involved in that area. There is a willingness that when it becomes necessary, we can and will do that. When the issue was raised about Enterprise Ireland and IDA Ireland, as I said, they look for particular types of people, but these negotiations have not started. Deputy Howlin is right on this. We still have a great deal of information to get from those with whom we will negotiate. Deputy Howlin made the point about knowing the thinking of people at a European level. From his experience and from that of Deputy Martin as a former Minister, it is about the building of relationships that last over a long period.
At the end of the day, this Brexit business will have to be decided by the European Council and every country represented on it has a veto. If issues arise that are not acceptable, as I have no doubt they will-----
It has got to be agreed at the European Council.
Yes, but if somebody at the European Council will not accept the outcome of the deal, we will have a real problem. Deputy Howlin made a point about knowing the thinking of other European colleagues, and it takes time to build those relationships, but, as he is aware, it comes down to the European Council's decision, it is the Heads of Government who will make the ultimate decision. I take the Deputy's comments in the spirit that he made them. The presentation of our priorities, as we see them, without having all of the information in so far as what the British Government's thinking is on this, have been reflected in the Commission, Parliament and Council. However, as the Deputy pointed out, in terms of having as close as possible a working relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which is what we have now as a member of the European Union, that will be changed by virtue of the fact that the Single Market will be gone and the trading status will be changed. Therefore, when we go around that loop and come back to where we started we will be in a different position. Even if no tariffs will apply in terms of trade, we will still have two different jurisdictions and the complications that would involve are obvious. An Open Skies arrangement will have to be drawn up between the European Union and the United Kingdom, otherwise, aircraft will not be able to take off from here and land in London and go on to collect other passengers. That is an issue that needs to be dealt with and it is being worked upon now. We cannot wait for divorce to be concluded to do that.  The three issues identified by Michael Barnier here and agreed by Europe are the border, modalities and liabilities in terms of what the bill might be and the question of citizen's rights and reciprocal rights. All these matters, as was rightly said, were never put to the people in a way that they would have had a real discussion about understanding them. That is why our common travel area, which has been in place for 90 years covering travel, residence and the right to work and to draw social benefits, is a bilateral arrangement between Ireland and the UK and it is different with respect to rights of the Polish people or Lithuanians or Latvians who live in Great Britain. The European position is that if we want to have a parallel discussion begun, where we get into the meat of trade, we will have to make substantial progress in respect of the first three issues. I hear comments from some people across the water to the effect that progress will not be made on this, which clearly will lead to other complications.
I take the Deputy's point. A no deal situation would be catastrophic for Ireland in, for example, the beef and agrifood sectors. Deputy Nolan spoke about the Brexit position. We did not cause this, we were not responsible for it and we did not want it but we have to deal with it. In respecting the vote of the British electorate, clearly, the issues that are priority have been set out for us. Dr. Pfeiffer is perfectly entitled to his opinion but this is decided at the European Council from a European point of view. One can have all the opinions, all the ideas and all the propositions one wants but at the end of the day, political leaders have to make decisions and the choices sometimes are not very palatable. That is why we were happy to get unanimous support from all the other 26 member states to say that Ireland's priorities are understood and Ireland's unique position is understood. We should remember that Brexit does not interfere with the Good Friday Agreement and we will not let it interfere with it. The Agreement was signed 19 years before Brexit ever became a reality.
Thank you. In recognising the visionaries of the Good Friday Agreement, we have had support from Europe, in that, if the Agreement is ever implemented in full, that is, with a vote for consent by the democratic decision of people to join the Republic, the entire Island would be recognised as an entity of the European Union in full without having to reapply for membership.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 9, inclusive, together. We are confident that the European Council’s adoption of the EU’s negotiating guidelines on 29 April gives Ireland its strongest hand going into these complex negotiations. The unique circumstances of Ireland have been recognised as part of the negotiations from the outset.  The Government’s priority here has been to ensure that the unique circumstances on the island of Ireland, including the Good Friday Agreement which already exists, are recognised and protected within the context of the Article 50 negotiations leading to a withdrawal agreement. The Good Friday Agreement is an internationally recognised treaty, legally binding and registered with the UN. This is a key distinguishing factor regarding what is a unique political and constitutional framework on the island of Ireland. As the Government has consistently said, the only way for us to influence this process and protect our national interests, including with regard to Northern Ireland and the common travel area, is to win the understanding and support of EU partners for Ireland’s unique concerns. From the outset, these concerns have been recognised as part of the negotiation guidelines, and we have achieved this understanding through the extensive programme of outreach and engagement undertaken with our EU partners. There will be a separate agreement on the UK’s future relationship with the EU, which is likely to cover a broad range of policy areas, including trade, and which is likely to take longer to conclude than the EU-UK exit agreement. Depending on the nature of this agreement, which is subject to negotiations, approval by each member state may be required in accordance with their own domestic procedures. It is also important to remember that the future relationship agreement will require ratification by all 27 member states, including Ireland. An EU-UK exit agreement will be approved by a majority in the European Council, therefore no one member state will be in a position to block or veto a deal. Even if it were possible to veto a deal, it would not mean that the UK would not leave because under Article 50, it would simply mean that the UK would depart without appropriate arrangements in place.
I will answer the last question first and the answer is "Yes". As the Deputy is aware from sitting very close to where Mr. Barnier spoke, this is one of the three priorities that needs to be dealt with. The first priority is the question of modalities and liabilities and the charge on the United Kingdom for leaving the European Union. This refers to a range of issues where contracts are in place or moneys are paid out of the European budget. There will be a difficulty in that if there is a €12 billion hole in the budget on a yearly basis, who is going to pay the extra or what programmes will be cut? Mr. Barnier stated that no country currently contributing to the European Union budget wants to pay any more and all of those in receipt of capital, grants and so on from the European Union do not want to receive any less. There will be a real problem if that is the scale of what is involved. The Deputy asked if the matter was discussed and it was. Mr. Barnier is a negotiator for Ireland and the Border is one of the first priorities. One of the second priorities relates to the rights of citizens and reciprocal rights for people from the UK living in the EU and  Deputy Howlin set out the position about the majority, equating to 72% of member states and 65% of the population. He is correct in that it would be a hollow victory. We do not want to have the case of negotiations coming to a finality at the European Council and finding ourselves stranded. That is why we have people on the negotiating task force who are in very close contact with our committee of permanent representatives to the EU, COREPER, and sherpa people in Brussels, so we know what is going on at all times in respect of the negotiating stances. I take the point of Deputies Howlin and Donnelly that it is very important for us in building those relationships to have our position cleared very early on. In fairness, most of the other European countries may not have as much interest as we do in Brexit because we are so close to Britain and for so many other reasons but they will become very interested if the hole in the budget will have an impact on programmes and structures in their countries. They might not have associated that with Brexit but if scheme X or Y is cut back or abolished altogether, people could become very interested politically. I agree with the sentiments that we need to do the work now and this will absorb so much political time from so many leaders over the next number of years. It need never have happened but it has happened.
I made a very clear decision that we should not appoint a Brexit Minister as the European Council leaders are the ones who make the decision. The European Parliament must pass the outcome and the Singapore agreement also has an impact. These mixed agreements mean the European Union has competence in some areas but individual and regional parliaments must ratify the matters at the end of the day. We have some really good people operating in London, Brussels and throughout Europe generally. They are very competent and fully focused. Whoever is the new leader of the Fine Gael Party - I hope he will become Taoiseach, with whatever structure of Government is involved - will have at his disposal all that expertise on a constant basis and be really fully informed. It will be up to that person to build relationships with the individual leaders, who seem to change on a pretty regular basis at a European level. In my experience anyway, every second or third European Council meeting has another two or three people I might not have seen before because elections take place on a very regular and irregular basis throughout Europe. I wish the best to whomever the party selects as leader. I hope it will be a focus in putting together a Government.I will finish by saying-----
-----the agenda for the European Union goes beyond Brexit. It also includes the Single Market, the digital single market, Economic and Monetary Union, opportunities to create jobs and for investment and very effective trade negotiations with other countries, including the United States and Canada and others towards the east, leading to the creation of millions of jobs. Brexit is not the be-all and end-all, but it is a real problem. While we must deal with it, we must also think beyond it
Gabh mo leithscéal. The Leas-Cheann Comhairle will not have me to deal with for too long more.
Thank you for your generosity and flexibility.
Obviously, I am upset about this. The establishment of Tusla as the Child and Family Agency was part of the overall strategy of making children and the family central in Ireland, with the appointment of a senior Minister to the Cabinet, the establishment of the Department of Children and Youth Affairs, holding of a referendum on children's rights and passing of subsequent legislation in various respects that would impact on society and social Ireland. Tusla, the Child and Family Agency, is funded by the taxpayer to a substantial amount. Last night's programme made for harrowing viewing, to say the least. It showed the unconscionable circumstances in which some children in this country found themselves. It is unacceptable. This is in the place, their home, where they are supposed to feel most loved, safe and valued. I believe I can speak for everybody here and every parent who watched in saying it was distressing viewing for parents. I say to the social workers who feel they are battling a system and the trainees who feel the same way that they should not be afraid to speak up and speak out. Many feel gagged and unable to speak the truth about what they know might be happening in some places. There are a number of criticisms made in the report, in the audit commissioned by the Garda and in the media coverage of it. They relate, in particular, to the out-of-hours social work service and the level of communication between Tusla and An Garda Síochána. It must be remembered that the period under review is 2008 to the end of 2015 and that there have been continuous improvements in the child protection area and Tusla operations since. Professor Shannon, whom I greatly respect, at the launch of the report on Monday, 29 May, expressed his full confidence in Tusla's child protection framework. On the out-of-hours social work service, a significant enhancement of the service took place in November 2015 and there is now a national service which facilitates 24-hour Garda contact with a social worker in cases where removal of a child under section 12 is being contemplated.There is emergency foster and residential care for a child removed from his or her family under this provision. As part of this service, social workers are available on the ground at night, over weekends and on bank holidays to assist An Garda Síochána in what are the busiest areas, namely, Dublin, Cork city, Kildare and Wicklow. In the remaining counties the volume of calls indicates that contact with Tusla social workers by telephone has been sufficient to date, but this is clearly under review. Some concerns have been expressed about the placement of such children in Garda stations and hospitals. I have been reassured that social admissions to hospital take place only in exceptional circumstances and only where a placement is for the child's own safety. Tusla does not request the Garda to keep a child over part of a night. That is a Garda decision. On the level of communication between Tusla and An Garda Síochána, I am informed that regular strategic liaison meetings take place at senior level to deal with the inadequacy pointed to.
As far as the Government and I are concerned, the issue should not be about the protection of the structure of Tusla but about the protection of children and accountability and transparency with regard to why the taxpayer puts money into Tusla in the first place. That should be evident to everybody. If that is not the case, we have to deal with the issue. My understanding - the Minister has obviously asked for a full report on it - is that work is already well under way on the many issues commented on by Dr. Shannon in his final report. Tusla will continue to roll out its national child care information system, which will significantly improve the information available on vulnerable children. I understand the Garda national child protection unit is carrying out an audit at local level of the child protection operations between Tusla and An Garda Síochána to see what is happening, or, perhaps more importantly, what is not happening. Divisional protective service units are being established in all 28 Garda divisions and effective liaison with Tusla will be a central feature of these units. Why not? In other places there are people who sit around the table from all of the various sectors to discuss these issues on a regular basis. A joint protocol is being finalised between Tusla and the Garda on the operation of section 12, which is an important section of the Act. This will provide clear and extensive guidance on a range of issues affecting children at risk. It will address many of the issues raised in the report by Dr. Shannon.  Best practice in child protection is evolving all the time. Research and reports like that of Dr. Shannon, commissioned by the Garda, provide a very necessary and valuable opportunity to review, reflect and strive to have an improved service.We are not finished with this at all. This has to be about the protection of children and not about the protection of the structure. I share the Deputy's view on that.
I cannot disagree with the central issue of Deputy Adams's comments. This has to be about accountability and not about zero accountability. The Child and Family Agency was set up for a particular purpose as part of the response of Government to placing children and children's voices at the centre of Irish society, with a senior Ministry and Department dedicated directly to children. There was a referendum on children's rights and there is legislation, dealing which issues from sexual abuse to marriage equality, which have covered issues of family and children. The report by Dr. Shannon speaks for itself. It is a very good report, a damning report and a very clear report. He has made 27 recommendations, which must and will be followed through on. The Minister will meet the Minister for Justice and Equality to address the issue of communication between Tusla and An Garda Síochána. As Deputy Adams is aware, section 12 of the Child Care Act 1991 is an essential mechanism under which An Garda Síochána performs its child protection function and is only used as a measure of last resort. The Garda Commissioner must respond to the report in respect of the training of gardaí, including training for diversity, and the PULSE system and the deficiencies identified therein. Deputies will recall that the Government has already dedicated substantial resources for investment in Garda IT infrastructure. A total of €330 million, including €205 million in the capital plan, will be provided between 2016 and 2021. Members will appreciate that the design, commissioning and the delivery of such a large-scale IT project takes time and we must get it right in the first place.  The report comments on deficiencies in child protection training for gardaí, which is very concerning and needs to be seriously addressed. While the design of course provision is a matter for the Garda Commissioner in the first instance, I am advised that the current Garda student and probationer training programme incorporates modules that address issues like sexual assault and the Children First guidelines. The extent to which the existing training programme should be expanded or amended on foot of Dr. Shannon's recommendations must be addressed by the Garda Commissioner and An Garda Síochána in their response to his report.  While acknowledging the serious issues raised for An Garda Síochána in the report, it is worth noting that there have been a number of important developments in Garda structures, including the establishment of the Garda National Protective Services Bureau and the creation of the divisional protective services units. I am advised that it is also proposed to create a national child protection unit within An Garda Síochána so some things are happening. My answer to Deputy Adams's question about whether this will receive a whole-of-Government response is "Yes". The answer to the question about whether we will undertake to fulfil the 17 recommendations made by Dr. Shannon is also "Yes". 
I did not have time to say it previously but the Garda Commissioner's modernisation and renewal programme from 2016 to 2021 and the policing plan for this year contain a commitment to implement a new Garda diversity and inclusion strategy. I understand that this is expected to be finalised shortly.I am advised that the new Garda strategy will embrace the recommendation from the Ombudsman for Children, arising from its review of the manner in which the Garda Síochána invoked its powers under section 12 of the Child Care Act 1991 with regard to two Roma children, which was an issue of national public discussion and concern some time ago. As part of this work, the Garda Síochána is committed to further training its workforce to develop its cultural competence in interacting with minority communities. I will finally say to the Deputy that in so far as my tenure continues here, I will see to it that this is initiated in respect of children. We have done so much in terms of preparations, and one of the central features of the child strategy issue has been the setting up of the Child and Family Agency, Tusla. We want to see that this is enabled to do its work properly and, as I said to Deputy Micheál Martin, the central issue here is about the protection of children, not the protection of jobs or the protection of a structure. I will see that this happens.
I am not happy about the situation that has arisen here. I am pleased that Dr. Shannon's report is as authentic and straightforward as it is. Tusla was the agency that said that it would be a ferocious corporate parent, looking after children. There are clearly questions to be answered here as to what was happening with public time, public money and public employees when children, as identified in this programme, were in the situation and circumstances in which they found themselves. I thank Deputy Howlin for his comment about being serious about this. It is a case where this structure will, like all other structures, seek to defend itself. The result is that vulnerable children are in very serious circumstances in some cases. It is our responsibility to see that everything humanly possible is done to put that right and if that requires further answers from Tusla, then so be it. As I said to Deputy Martin, this is not about zero accountability; it is about full accountability in respect of the most important people in the country who are our children. I want to meet the principals involved here. I want to speak to Dr. Shannon and to Tusla. I also want to speak to both Ministers. We cannot have a situation where there is a lack of engagement between the authorities and the agencies involved, the Garda and Tusla. I remember attending the launch of Tusla in Dublin Castle with the then Minister of State, Deputy Kathleen Lynch, and we put forward the proposition that Tusla was a radical step forward in the protection of children. Dr. Shannon's report points out serious inadequacies and we have to deal with those. I undertake to do so.
I fully agree. It is about the change of the culture here. The culture has been one of defence and structural protection. The purpose and focus of Tusla was to deal with children and the protection of children and the care and the comfort and facilities for children. As Deputy Howlin rightly says, we should not have to wait for any rapporteur's report to know what is happening here. If there are inadequacies between the Garda communications and Tusla, then I will rectify that. If this requires regular political oversight and monitoring, let us rectify that. One cannot have children living in fear in urine-soaked clothes in situations where they deserve the protection and the support of the State. There is nothing more important than this. I thank Dr. Shannon for his report, but let us see that the 17 recommendations are implemented. I will be speaking to both the Minister for Justice and Equality and the Minister for Children and Youth Affairs, but also to Tusla. I am not happy about this. It goes to the central issue here. This is about changing a culture from one of protection of structure and jobs to one of protection of children.
The central point the Deputy makes is that the Government has failed to act on this issue but I disagree. I believe that Mr. Justice Charleton is the most appropriate person to carry out the required investigation. He has already adopted an absolutely no-nonsense approach to dealing with the business before him. He has set out the timelines, the strategy and the focus of public hearings. Deputy Barry has come into this House with a report from a journalist that a phone is missing that was in the possession of the Garda Commissioner. I do not know whether that is true or whether it is an allegation that stands up but I expect that Mr. Justice Charleton will find out the truth of that. He has already pointed out that public hearings on this matter will take place in July. Obviously he is a person of long experience, having worked on the Morris tribunal and having dealt with matters as complex as this in the past. He is the very best person to deal with the matter. I reject the Deputy's assertion that the Government has not done anything about this. The Government has set up a full formal commission of investigation under a very competent sole member to deal with the matter. The terms of reference of the tribunal are comprehensive and Mr. Justice Charleton will not stand on ceremony in getting to the truth of the issue. I would be loath to accept what the Deputy has said because I do not have any idea whether it is true. It is an allegation and a report. I would much prefer to leave the determination of the facts and the truth to Mr. Justice Charleton. I have every faith that he will discharge his duties and responsibilities to the utmost level of satisfaction.
It is a separate issue.
It is a separate issue.
The Deputy may do so if he wishes.
I will answer the Deputy's question. He knows quite well what he is doing in here. He wants to raise as many subjects as he can. That is his political business.
As Deputy Barry knows, the Charleton tribunal made an interim report to the Clerk of the Dáil on 18 May last. In that report, the sole member outlined the parties who have been granted representation before the tribunal. They include Sergeant Maurice McCabe; Superintendent David Taylor, who is a former Garda press officer; the Garda Commissioner; and the former Garda Commissioner, Martin Callinan. According to the interim report, the Garda Commissioner and the former Garda Commissioner have agreed to waive privilege in respect of records in their possession. A slate of public hearings on this matter will be held in July of this year under the chairmanship of Mr. Justice Charleton. That is the place where the accuracy, the veracity and the truth will be established. The matters presented here by Deputy Barry, on the basis of a journalist's report or whatever, will then be established beyond "Yea" or "Nay". I would much prefer to await the outcome of the deliberations under the direction of Mr. Justice Charleton than to rely on reports, the truth or otherwise of which I cannot stand over.
It has been a while since I spoke to President el-Sisi directly. I have spoken to him directly on two occasions and have also written him a very strong letter. We have supported the all-party delegation led by the Ceann Comhairle and the request for release on humanitarian grounds. The Cabinet made a decision to send an Irish medical doctor to Egypt to assess Ibrahim Halawa's health. I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade to bring the Deputy up to date on the latest position.
I have not had time to read it, but I expect there should be an early debate on it in the House. The important thing is there is cross-party political consensus on the main issues in the report, and from a politician's perspective, this is an important element which we have not had before. I commend the members of the committee, who have worked to remove elements of the health system from becoming political footballs. It is a matter of assessing the full report and having a debate on it here and, in so far as possible, following through on it. We will do this and come back into the House.
I expect the Whip will bring in the new judicial appointments Bill on 20 June. Members will have different views on it, but it is agreed from a Government perspective. This is a radical departure bringing transparency, yet it retains the responsibility of Cabinet making decisions at Government level on judicial appointments and having a choice to do so. It is expected to be come in on 20 June and let see how it progresses. The intention is to have it resolved and put through before the summer recess, but this depends on the views of Deputies who comment.
I move the following Supplementary Estimates:
            That a sum not exceeding €3,903,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Secretary General to the President, for certain other expenses of the President’s Establishment and for certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €36,747,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Department of the Taoiseach, including certain services administered by the Department and for payment of grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €14,900,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Attorney General, including a grant.
            That a sum not exceeding €48,584,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Central Statistics Office.
            That a sum not exceeding €40,676,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions.
            That a sum not exceeding €32,340,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief State Solicitor.
            That a sum not exceeding €39,470,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Finance, including the Paymaster-General’s Office, for certain services administered by the Office of the Minister and for payment of certain grants, and that a sum not exceeding €227,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €6,915,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General.
            That a sum not exceeding €341,141,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Revenue Commissioners, including certain other services administered by that Office, and that a sum not exceeding €2,000,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,605,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Tax Appeals Commission.
            That a sum not exceeding €53,105,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, for certain services administered by the Office of the Minister and for payment of certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €359,900,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for pensions, superannuation, occupational injuries, and additional and other allowances and gratuities under the Superannuation Acts 1834 to 2004 and sundry other statutes; extra-statutory pensions, allowances and gratuities awarded by the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, fees to medical referees and occasional fees to doctors; compensation and other payments in respect of personal injuries; fees to Pensions Authority and other professional fees, miscellaneous payments, etc.
            That a sum not exceeding €365,067,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of Public Works, for services administered by that Office and for payment of certain grants and for the recoupment of certain expenditure, and that a sum not exceeding €2,000,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €8,749,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the State Laboratory.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,000,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for Secret Service.
            That a sum not exceeding €10,239,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Valuation Office and certain minor services.
            That a sum not exceeding €11,156,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Public Appointments Service.
            That a sum not exceeding €45,173,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the National Shared Services Office.
            That a sum not exceeding €10,535,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Ombudsman, the Office of the Commission for Public Service Appointments, the Standards in Public Office Commission, the Office of the Information Commissioner and the Office of the Commissioner for Environmental Information.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,505,946,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Garda Síochána, including pensions, etc.; for the payment of certain witnesses’ expenses, and for payment of certain grants, and that a sum not exceeding €9,344,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €314,790,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Prison Service, and other expenses in connection with prisons, including places of detention, and for payment of certain grants, and that a sum not exceeding €2,833,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €92,252,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for such of the salaries and expenses of the Courts Service and of the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal, the High Court, the Special Criminal Court, the Circuit Court and the District Court and of certain other minor services as are not charged to the Central Fund.
            That a sum not exceeding €27,785,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Property Registration Authority.
            That a sum not exceeding €383,322,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Justice and Equality, Probation Service staff and of certain other services including payments under cash-limited schemes administered by that Office, and payment of certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €6,522,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission and for payment of certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €8,675,299,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Education and Skills, for certain services administered by that Office, and for the payments of certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €485,494,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for certain Official Development Assistance, including certain grants and for contributions to certain International Organisations involved in Development Assistance and for salaries and expenses in connection therewith.
            That a sum not exceeding €183,527,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, and for certain services administered by that Office, including grants and contributions to International Organisations.
            That a sum not exceeding €290,636,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment, including certain services administered by that Office, and for payment of certain grants, and that a sum not exceeding €12,128,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,131,157,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, including certain services administered by that Office, and of the Irish Land Commission and for payment of certain grants and subsidies and for the payment of certain grants under cash-limited schemes and the remediation of Haulbowline Island, and that a sum not exceeding €21,700,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,442,107,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport, including certain services administered by that Office, for payment of certain grants and certain other services, and that a sum not exceeding €10,969,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €808,047,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, including certain services administered by that Office, for the payment of certain subsidies and grants and for the payment of certain grants under cash-limited schemes.
            That a sum not exceeding €354,982,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Arts, Heritage, Regional, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs, including certain services administered by that Office, and for payment of certain subsidies and grants, and that a sum not exceeding €13,548,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,705,622,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, including grants to Local Authorities, grants and other expenses in connection with housing, water services, miscellaneous schemes, subsidies and grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €224,632,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for retired pay, pensions, compensation, allowances and gratuities payable under sundry statutes to or in respect of members of the Defence Forces and certain other Military Organisations, etc., and for sundry contributions and expenses in connection therewith; for certain extra-statutory children’s allowances and other payments and for sundry grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €671,093,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Defence, including certain services administered by that Office; for the pay and expenses of the Defence Forces; and for payment of certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €10,779,233,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Social Protection, for certain services administered by that Office, for payments to the Social Insurance Fund and for certain grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €14,146,309,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Health and certain other services administered by that Office, including grants to the Health Service Executive and miscellaneous grants.
            That a sum not exceeding €19,960,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of Government Procurement, and that a sum not exceeding €110,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €1,286,024,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Office of the Minister for Children and Youth Affairs, for certain services administered by that Office and for the payment of grants including certain grants under cash-limited schemes, and that a sum not exceeding €1,640,000 be granted by way of the application for capital supply services of unspent appropriations, the surrender of which may be deferred under Section 91 of the Finance Act 2004.
            That a sum not exceeding €2,654,000 be granted to defray the charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of December, 2017, for the salaries and expenses of the Policing Authority.”
I propose to take Questions No. 1 to 6, inclusive, together. Having regard to the confidential nature of the work of the national security committee, it would not be appropriate to disclose information about the dates of individual meetings or about its proceedings. The committee is chaired by the Secretary General to the Government and comprises representatives at the highest level of the Departments of Justice and Equality, Defence and Foreign Affairs and Trade, and of the Garda Síochána and the Defence Forces.  It is concerned with ensuring the Government and I are advised of high level security issues and the responses to them, but not with operational security matters. The committee meets as required and will continue to do so. In addition to the meetings, the members liaise on an ongoing basis to monitor developments that might have national security implications, in particular in the international arena. As regards the meeting of 25 May, its purpose was to review the State's arrangements and level of preparedness in the event of a major terrorist attack. As well as the Tánaiste and me, the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister of State at the Department of Defence and the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment attended, with the Garda Commissioner, the Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces and senior officials. The meeting was briefed on the current threat assessment by the security authorities. It was noted that while a terrorist attack was possible, it was unlikely and that there was no specific information on any threat to Ireland from international terrorism. This assessment will remain under continuous review. The authorities remain in daily contact with their counterparts in the United Kingdom, the European Union and beyond. The Garda authorities, supported by the Defence Forces, are engaged in ongoing work aimed at preventing an attack taking place. Detailed preparations have also been made in the event of an attack. Other agencies also have plans in place to deal with the outcome of major incidents. Ministers were also briefed on the overall national emergency management arrangements, involving all of the agencies of the State, and how the arrangements would operate in the event of a major incident. The meeting was advised that the Garda authorities were working closely with event organisers to ensure appropriate safety and security measures were in place at major events. The Garda is asking the public to remain vigilant and report immediately any issue which gives rise to concern. Of equal importance is ongoing work to ensure people do not become alienated from our society and radicalised. Terrorism is caused not by particular religions or peoples but by hatred. The aim of international terrorism is to change our way of life through creating fear. We cannot and will not allow that to happen. It is important that we abide by our values and continue to live our lives to the full in a free society.
This is probably one of the most serious matters that can ever be considered here. There are some things one can say and some things one cannot say. Facilities at Shannon Airport have been used for many years by members of the US Air Force, but I have no evidence of rendition flights through it. Deputy Mick Wallace has been there on a number of occasions. Deputy Gerry Adams has stated we cannot consider ourselves to be immune. That is true and there is no complacency. The weapons of bombers have changed and are changing. Clearly, the incidents in France, Belgium, Berlin and Sweden lead us to believe this. There is now the capacity to take remote control of a vehicle and drive it at speed into a crowd of people, with or without a driver. More primitive weapons are being used to carry out the same destruction, leading to international incidents. The question of having a separate security group or force has been raised. I am not sure we want an MI5 or an MI6 here, but the O'Toole commission which is examining the structure, policing and security matters, as raised by Deputies Mícheál Martin, Brendan Howlin and Joan Burton, can consider the matter in a way which allows us to reflect a very dangerous and changing world.  As Deputy Mícheál Martin is aware, the Defence Forces obviously have intelligence available to them on small numbers of people who might be in the country for purposes other than peaceful living. They are under review on a constant basis. That intelligence is made available to the Garda and shared on a very regular basis. Clearly, the Garda and the security forces generally are in constant touch, or daily contact, with Britain, the rest of Europe and beyond, where necessary. Deputy Mícheál Martin referred to the slaughter of innocent victims. While all cases are tragic, one of the differences is that suicide bombers want to be blown up. The Provisional IRA did not want that to happen. It caused the same destruction and no warnings were given and people suffered tragic consequences. The preparations for a serious incident here have covered and do cover a range of options, about which I cannot speak. No matter where one puts the cordon of security, however, people have to gather outside it to get in and these are always issues of grave concern. I expect the O'Toole commission to examine the issue of security or a security element-----
As the Deputy is aware, we have had enough discussion here about the structure of the Garda to get it right. If there is to be a second element, which may well be worthwhile, that is another matter. I do not want to prejudge the expertise available to the O'Toole commission. The evolution through the independent Policing Authority and the changes with GSOC and the Garda Inspectorate will all lead to a change in culture in the Garda over a number of years. Whether it would be right to have a second intelligence and security element is a matter I do not want to prejudge, but it is working well in other countries. We have had our own system. Obviously, there have been inadequacies that we are trying to rectify. Radicalisation has been mentioned. It is not a religious issue. The Garda has the capacity to engage with different and diverse communities to understand what is happening and what is likely to be of interest to us. There is a lot of activity in that area. Deputy Mícheál Martin mentioned people coming back to Ireland having fought with ISIS. As I said, there is a small number of people in the country who are certainly under scrutiny.  Deputy Joan Burton raised the question of having an intelligence agency. It will certainly be an element of the focus of the O'Toole commission. I do not want to prejudge it. Let us get the system we have in place right. I assure Members that at the meeting I attended with representatives of the Garda, the Defence Forces and the health, transport and aviation sectors they informed me that they were all very active in looking out for potential incidents that might occur here. The sharing of information is important. It is quite complex and very complicated in terms of the information stored on servers here with major companies. Privacy and the protection of data are very strongly valued by them, yet we have to share information with our UK colleagues who might see potential terrorists passing through Britain, including to case a place with the intention of carrying out an incident later. That is a matter we have to deal with through legislation, which is very complicated. At the same time, we have to and do share information on potential terrorists with our colleagues across the water. That is an issue that is being focused on by the Department of Justice and Equality.
I met with Mr. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief negotiator for Brexit in Government Buildings on 11 May. I was accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister for Finance-----
I am sorry. I am jumping the gun. Gabh mo leithscéal. A major mistake.
Go easy on me now. I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 9, inclusive, together. In A Programme for a Partnership Government, the Government stated its intention to reform Seanad Éireann and committed to pursuing implementation of the report of the working group on Seanad reform, the Manning report. That report was published in 2015 and is available on the Department's website. One of the recommendations of the report was the establishment of an implementation group to oversee implementation of the reforms contained in the report.  As I said previously, I agreed with a suggestion made here some time ago by Deputy Micheál Martin that this group should be based in the Oireachtas and should comprise members of the Dáil and Seanad from all parties and groups, with access to independent expert advice as required. I wrote to party leaders in September last year seeking their agreement to this approach and their intention to participate. Contacts are still continuing with parties to finalise nominations with a view to having the group up and running as soon as possible.
I admit that I am guilty of not having put this together. We had questions in the House on 22 February. At that time, I said that there was a dispute over who would chair the group. I think Deputy Martin had one nominee and I had another. Let me renew my activities to see if we can get a chair and get it set up. I would like to do that. Deputy Howlin asked me when the next election is going to be and whether anything will happen before then. I am not sure when that is going to happen actually.
There is a confidence and supply agreement and all the rest of it. Politics has a peculiar way of moving things along. I would not like to hazard a guess on it, but hopefully it will be a long time away for those who are continuing on in Government. I will try to sort this in the next couple of days.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 10 to 17, inclusive, together. I met with Mr. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief negotiator for Brexit, in Government Buildings on Thursday 11 May. I was accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, and the Minister of State for European affairs. The meeting provided an opportunity, following the European Council's adoption of the EU negotiating guidelines and in advance of agreement on the more detailed negotiating directives, to thank Mr. Barnier for his openness to Ireland in relation to our particular concerns arising from Brexit and to highlight our thoughts about the process ahead. We discussed the serious implications in relation to peace and stability in Northern Ireland and the Border, and for the Irish economy, particularly the fisheries and agrifood sector. I commended Mr. Barnier on his address to the Oireachtas that morning and expressed confidence in his ability to negotiate on behalf of the EU 27 and to take account of Ireland's particular concerns.  Mr. Barnier stressed the complexities of the issues involved in the negotiations and outlined his intention to be firm but fair. He committed to ensuring that the task force remains accessible to all Member States and especially to Ireland, given our unique concerns.  There is ongoing daily engagement on Brexit and on other EU issues between the Department of the Taoiseach and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade and, indeed, with the permanent representation in Brussels and our network of missions across the EU, with a view to ensuring a comprehensive approach to EU affairs. There is also of course ongoing interaction across all Government Departments on the range of EU issues, including through regular meetings of the senior officials group on the EU and the inter-departmental group on Brexit, which is chaired by the second Secretary General in my Department.  This is consistent with the approach set out in my Department's statement of strategy, which identified the need for a whole-of-government approach to the Brexit negotiations.  The second Secretary General also acts as Ireland's sherpa and, in this capacity, meets and engages regularly with his EU counterparts. Since the triggering of Article 50 on 29 March, there have been two formal sherpa meetings under the Article 50 format, one on 11 April and another on 24 April. Ireland participated fully in both of these.  The discussions focused on the EU negotiating guidelines, which were subsequently agreed by the European Council on 29 April.  The negotiations on Brexit, which will be conducted by the Commission, will be guided by the European Council in its Article 50 format, that is, the heads of state and government of the 27 member states.  In addition, Ministers at the General Affairs Council now also discuss issues relating to Brexit in the Article 50 format.At official level, the Committee of Permanent Representatives in the European Union, COREPER, and the new working party are also meeting at 27 to discuss issues relating to Brexit. COREPER meets on a weekly basis. The new working party first met on 23 May and it is expected to meet twice a week from now on. Of course, there are also daily meetings of working groups on the full range of EU issues and these groups include representatives of all member states, including Ireland. 
Deputy Burton raised the question of AIB. The Minister for Finance has taken a lead role on this. Under EU fiscal rules, the proceeds of any sale may not be used to fund increased expenditure irrespective of whether such expenditure is classified as current or as capital. On the accounting treatment of any proceeds from such a transaction, the position is that the sale of such financial assets does not result in a beneficial impact to the general Government balance under EUROSTAT rules. This is because it is classified as a financial transaction whereby it is essentially the exchange of one form of assets, such as shares, for another kind, such as cash. Consequently, the sale of any share-holding in a bank would not count as general Government revenue, and would not create any scope for increased spending on the basis of the proceeds that are realised. There will be no increased capacity for spending following any sale of bank shares. The Minister for Finance will make his decision on this matter in the next 48 hours.
The Minister informed the Government of his process to this point. He expects he will keep Government informed and that he expects to make a decision in the next 48 hours.
While not improving the deficit-----
-----cash proceeds from the sale of bank shares would result in a reduced requirement for Exchequer borrowing, which ultimately results in lower debt. A lower debt level is not only beneficial for the fiscal sustainability of the State, but will also lead to reduced interest payments in future years. It is crucial that increases in funding for public investment are based on sustainable economic growth, and the Government is well aware of the challenges that arose in the past when one-off amounts of money were used to fund ongoing commitments to the State.
Deputy Gerry Adams raised the question of papers produced by Mr. Barnier in respect of citizens' rights. We are engaged with Brussels and London on a daily basis about all of these matters. The Government will respond to the papers and they can be debated here. I note the Deputy's comment about Mr. Colum Eastwood, MLA, and the united Ireland referendum. I do not believe that the conditions are right for it at the moment but I was happy that the European Council reflected carefully on the visionaries who put their words together on the Good Friday Agreement such that, if that process ever happens and people decide to have a democratic vote by consent to join the Republic, the entire island becomes a full member of the European Union, irrespective of the decision to leave as part of Britain under the Brexit negotiations. Deputy Brendan Howlin raised the question of the EU agencies here. Clearly, Ireland has applied for both of them, as other countries have. These are European agencies that will be based in a European country. We are competing with Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Luxembourg for the financial one and with other countries for the medical agency and we will compete strongly for those. We tick many of the relevant boxes. That will eventually be decided by the European Council, probably in the autumn. Deputy Stephen S. Donnelly raised the level of meetings in the negotiations. These negotiations have not begun at all yet. All we are doing is setting out the strategy and groundwork, and we have those principles established. When the Deputy says that the IDA and Enterprise Ireland have not taken up all of the approved numbers, they will be employed as needs be, and outside expertise will be employed if necessary. The negotiations have not begun in detail yet. The Deputy also spoke about what he termed "mounting materiality", which is not a common phrase used down in the country, I have to say. Deputy Seán Haughey mentioned co-ordination between Departments. There is co-ordination on a daily basis. On having a Minister with responsibility for Brexit, I made the point before that the decisions are made by the European Council. If a Brexit Minister was appointed, he or she could not even attend the General Affairs Council, which makes the initial preparatory decisions before they go to the European Council. Let us say that Deputy Richard Boyd Barrett becomes the Brexit Minister, he cannot attend the General Affairs Council, he cannot attend at the European Council-----
-----so what is he doing? One puts the responsibility on those who make the decision. At the end of the day, it is the European Council. Deputy Boyd Barrett raised the matter of the veto. We have a veto because it has to be approved eventually by the entire European Council. Ireland has a veto, along with every other country if they so wish, and that is contained clearly within the rules and regulations. If at the end of the day, when it is all over and done with, and a proposition comes - the European Parliament will have its say - to the European Council, if Ireland is not in agreement, Ireland has a veto, the same as everybody else-----
Of all the countries-----
Yes, our priorities are set out, very clearly, and backed unanimously by the other 26, which I think is important.
Let us see what happens. There is a British election on at the moment-----
-----and there is much talk about hard Brexits and cliffs and all the rest of it-----
-----but what the British Government wants is the closest possible relationship with the European Union, which includes us. If one is going to have the closest possible relationship, one has to be able to deal with the question of the British Government leaving the Single Market and the changed status-----
-----of its trading relationship. That is what the negotiations are about.
I will finally address what Deputy Eamon Ryan said-----
-----about why we cannot move on to discuss these things as needs be. We have inserted a clause that if substantial progress is being made on the principal issues here-----
-----on the modalities, principals and liabilities, the question of reciprocal rights for citizens and the question of the Border-----
If these matters are making substantial progress, people would be inclined to talk about the issues the Deputy mentioned.
I propose to take Questions No. 1 to 6, inclusive, together. Having regard to the confidential nature of the work of the national security committee, it would not be appropriate to disclose information about the dates of individual meetings or about its proceedings. The committee is chaired by the Secretary General to the Government and comprises representatives at the highest level of the Departments of Justice and Equality, Defence and Foreign Affairs and Trade, and of the Garda Síochána and the Defence Forces.  It is concerned with ensuring the Government and I are advised of high level security issues and the responses to them, but not with operational security matters. The committee meets as required and will continue to do so. In addition to the meetings, the members liaise on an ongoing basis to monitor developments that might have national security implications, in particular in the international arena. As regards the meeting of 25 May, its purpose was to review the State's arrangements and level of preparedness in the event of a major terrorist attack. As well as the Tánaiste and me, the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister of State at the Department of Defence and the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment attended, with the Garda Commissioner, the Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces and senior officials. The meeting was briefed on the current threat assessment by the security authorities. It was noted that while a terrorist attack was possible, it was unlikely and that there was no specific information on any threat to Ireland from international terrorism. This assessment will remain under continuous review. The authorities remain in daily contact with their counterparts in the United Kingdom, the European Union and beyond. The Garda authorities, supported by the Defence Forces, are engaged in ongoing work aimed at preventing an attack taking place. Detailed preparations have also been made in the event of an attack. Other agencies also have plans in place to deal with the outcome of major incidents. Ministers were also briefed on the overall national emergency management arrangements, involving all of the agencies of the State, and how the arrangements would operate in the event of a major incident. The meeting was advised that the Garda authorities were working closely with event organisers to ensure appropriate safety and security measures were in place at major events. The Garda is asking the public to remain vigilant and report immediately any issue which gives rise to concern. Of equal importance is ongoing work to ensure people do not become alienated from our society and radicalised. Terrorism is caused not by particular religions or peoples but by hatred. The aim of international terrorism is to change our way of life through creating fear. We cannot and will not allow that to happen. It is important that we abide by our values and continue to live our lives to the full in a free society.
This is probably one of the most serious matters that can ever be considered here. There are some things one can say and some things one cannot say. Facilities at Shannon Airport have been used for many years by members of the US Air Force, but I have no evidence of rendition flights through it. Deputy Mick Wallace has been there on a number of occasions. Deputy Gerry Adams has stated we cannot consider ourselves to be immune. That is true and there is no complacency. The weapons of bombers have changed and are changing. Clearly, the incidents in France, Belgium, Berlin and Sweden lead us to believe this. There is now the capacity to take remote control of a vehicle and drive it at speed into a crowd of people, with or without a driver. More primitive weapons are being used to carry out the same destruction, leading to international incidents. The question of having a separate security group or force has been raised. I am not sure we want an MI5 or an MI6 here, but the O'Toole commission which is examining the structure, policing and security matters, as raised by Deputies Mícheál Martin, Brendan Howlin and Joan Burton, can consider the matter in a way which allows us to reflect a very dangerous and changing world.  As Deputy Mícheál Martin is aware, the Defence Forces obviously have intelligence available to them on small numbers of people who might be in the country for purposes other than peaceful living. They are under review on a constant basis. That intelligence is made available to the Garda and shared on a very regular basis. Clearly, the Garda and the security forces generally are in constant touch, or daily contact, with Britain, the rest of Europe and beyond, where necessary. Deputy Mícheál Martin referred to the slaughter of innocent victims. While all cases are tragic, one of the differences is that suicide bombers want to be blown up. The Provisional IRA did not want that to happen. It caused the same destruction and no warnings were given and people suffered tragic consequences. The preparations for a serious incident here have covered and do cover a range of options, about which I cannot speak. No matter where one puts the cordon of security, however, people have to gather outside it to get in and these are always issues of grave concern. I expect the O'Toole commission to examine the issue of security or a security element-----
As the Deputy is aware, we have had enough discussion here about the structure of the Garda to get it right. If there is to be a second element, which may well be worthwhile, that is another matter. I do not want to prejudge the expertise available to the O'Toole commission. The evolution through the independent Policing Authority and the changes with GSOC and the Garda Inspectorate will all lead to a change in culture in the Garda over a number of years. Whether it would be right to have a second intelligence and security element is a matter I do not want to prejudge, but it is working well in other countries. We have had our own system. Obviously, there have been inadequacies that we are trying to rectify. Radicalisation has been mentioned. It is not a religious issue. The Garda has the capacity to engage with different and diverse communities to understand what is happening and what is likely to be of interest to us. There is a lot of activity in that area. Deputy Mícheál Martin mentioned people coming back to Ireland having fought with ISIS. As I said, there is a small number of people in the country who are certainly under scrutiny.  Deputy Joan Burton raised the question of having an intelligence agency. It will certainly be an element of the focus of the O'Toole commission. I do not want to prejudge it. Let us get the system we have in place right. I assure Members that at the meeting I attended with representatives of the Garda, the Defence Forces and the health, transport and aviation sectors they informed me that they were all very active in looking out for potential incidents that might occur here. The sharing of information is important. It is quite complex and very complicated in terms of the information stored on servers here with major companies. Privacy and the protection of data are very strongly valued by them, yet we have to share information with our UK colleagues who might see potential terrorists passing through Britain, including to case a place with the intention of carrying out an incident later. That is a matter we have to deal with through legislation, which is very complicated. At the same time, we have to and do share information on potential terrorists with our colleagues across the water. That is an issue that is being focused on by the Department of Justice and Equality.
I met with Mr. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief negotiator for Brexit in Government Buildings on 11 May. I was accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister for Finance-----
I am sorry. I am jumping the gun. Gabh mo leithscéal. A major mistake.
Go easy on me now. I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 9, inclusive, together. In A Programme for a Partnership Government, the Government stated its intention to reform Seanad Éireann and committed to pursuing implementation of the report of the working group on Seanad reform, the Manning report. That report was published in 2015 and is available on the Department's website. One of the recommendations of the report was the establishment of an implementation group to oversee implementation of the reforms contained in the report.  As I said previously, I agreed with a suggestion made here some time ago by Deputy Micheál Martin that this group should be based in the Oireachtas and should comprise members of the Dáil and Seanad from all parties and groups, with access to independent expert advice as required. I wrote to party leaders in September last year seeking their agreement to this approach and their intention to participate. Contacts are still continuing with parties to finalise nominations with a view to having the group up and running as soon as possible.
I admit that I am guilty of not having put this together. We had questions in the House on 22 February. At that time, I said that there was a dispute over who would chair the group. I think Deputy Martin had one nominee and I had another. Let me renew my activities to see if we can get a chair and get it set up. I would like to do that. Deputy Howlin asked me when the next election is going to be and whether anything will happen before then. I am not sure when that is going to happen actually.
There is a confidence and supply agreement and all the rest of it. Politics has a peculiar way of moving things along. I would not like to hazard a guess on it, but hopefully it will be a long time away for those who are continuing on in Government. I will try to sort this in the next couple of days.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 10 to 17, inclusive, together. I met with Mr. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief negotiator for Brexit, in Government Buildings on Thursday 11 May. I was accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, and the Minister of State for European affairs. The meeting provided an opportunity, following the European Council's adoption of the EU negotiating guidelines and in advance of agreement on the more detailed negotiating directives, to thank Mr. Barnier for his openness to Ireland in relation to our particular concerns arising from Brexit and to highlight our thoughts about the process ahead. We discussed the serious implications in relation to peace and stability in Northern Ireland and the Border, and for the Irish economy, particularly the fisheries and agrifood sector. I commended Mr. Barnier on his address to the Oireachtas that morning and expressed confidence in his ability to negotiate on behalf of the EU 27 and to take account of Ireland's particular concerns.  Mr. Barnier stressed the complexities of the issues involved in the negotiations and outlined his intention to be firm but fair. He committed to ensuring that the task force remains accessible to all Member States and especially to Ireland, given our unique concerns.  There is ongoing daily engagement on Brexit and on other EU issues between the Department of the Taoiseach and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade and, indeed, with the permanent representation in Brussels and our network of missions across the EU, with a view to ensuring a comprehensive approach to EU affairs. There is also of course ongoing interaction across all Government Departments on the range of EU issues, including through regular meetings of the senior officials group on the EU and the inter-departmental group on Brexit, which is chaired by the second Secretary General in my Department.  This is consistent with the approach set out in my Department's statement of strategy, which identified the need for a whole-of-government approach to the Brexit negotiations.  The second Secretary General also acts as Ireland's sherpa and, in this capacity, meets and engages regularly with his EU counterparts. Since the triggering of Article 50 on 29 March, there have been two formal sherpa meetings under the Article 50 format, one on 11 April and another on 24 April. Ireland participated fully in both of these.  The discussions focused on the EU negotiating guidelines, which were subsequently agreed by the European Council on 29 April.  The negotiations on Brexit, which will be conducted by the Commission, will be guided by the European Council in its Article 50 format, that is, the heads of state and government of the 27 member states.  In addition, Ministers at the General Affairs Council now also discuss issues relating to Brexit in the Article 50 format.At official level, the Committee of Permanent Representatives in the European Union, COREPER, and the new working party are also meeting at 27 to discuss issues relating to Brexit. COREPER meets on a weekly basis. The new working party first met on 23 May and it is expected to meet twice a week from now on. Of course, there are also daily meetings of working groups on the full range of EU issues and these groups include representatives of all member states, including Ireland. 
Deputy Burton raised the question of AIB. The Minister for Finance has taken a lead role on this. Under EU fiscal rules, the proceeds of any sale may not be used to fund increased expenditure irrespective of whether such expenditure is classified as current or as capital. On the accounting treatment of any proceeds from such a transaction, the position is that the sale of such financial assets does not result in a beneficial impact to the general Government balance under EUROSTAT rules. This is because it is classified as a financial transaction whereby it is essentially the exchange of one form of assets, such as shares, for another kind, such as cash. Consequently, the sale of any share-holding in a bank would not count as general Government revenue, and would not create any scope for increased spending on the basis of the proceeds that are realised. There will be no increased capacity for spending following any sale of bank shares. The Minister for Finance will make his decision on this matter in the next 48 hours.
The Minister informed the Government of his process to this point. He expects he will keep Government informed and that he expects to make a decision in the next 48 hours.
While not improving the deficit-----
-----cash proceeds from the sale of bank shares would result in a reduced requirement for Exchequer borrowing, which ultimately results in lower debt. A lower debt level is not only beneficial for the fiscal sustainability of the State, but will also lead to reduced interest payments in future years. It is crucial that increases in funding for public investment are based on sustainable economic growth, and the Government is well aware of the challenges that arose in the past when one-off amounts of money were used to fund ongoing commitments to the State.
Deputy Gerry Adams raised the question of papers produced by Mr. Barnier in respect of citizens' rights. We are engaged with Brussels and London on a daily basis about all of these matters. The Government will respond to the papers and they can be debated here. I note the Deputy's comment about Mr. Colum Eastwood, MLA, and the united Ireland referendum. I do not believe that the conditions are right for it at the moment but I was happy that the European Council reflected carefully on the visionaries who put their words together on the Good Friday Agreement such that, if that process ever happens and people decide to have a democratic vote by consent to join the Republic, the entire island becomes a full member of the European Union, irrespective of the decision to leave as part of Britain under the Brexit negotiations. Deputy Brendan Howlin raised the question of the EU agencies here. Clearly, Ireland has applied for both of them, as other countries have. These are European agencies that will be based in a European country. We are competing with Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Luxembourg for the financial one and with other countries for the medical agency and we will compete strongly for those. We tick many of the relevant boxes. That will eventually be decided by the European Council, probably in the autumn. Deputy Stephen S. Donnelly raised the level of meetings in the negotiations. These negotiations have not begun at all yet. All we are doing is setting out the strategy and groundwork, and we have those principles established. When the Deputy says that the IDA and Enterprise Ireland have not taken up all of the approved numbers, they will be employed as needs be, and outside expertise will be employed if necessary. The negotiations have not begun in detail yet. The Deputy also spoke about what he termed "mounting materiality", which is not a common phrase used down in the country, I have to say. Deputy Seán Haughey mentioned co-ordination between Departments. There is co-ordination on a daily basis. On having a Minister with responsibility for Brexit, I made the point before that the decisions are made by the European Council. If a Brexit Minister was appointed, he or she could not even attend the General Affairs Council, which makes the initial preparatory decisions before they go to the European Council. Let us say that Deputy Richard Boyd Barrett becomes the Brexit Minister, he cannot attend the General Affairs Council, he cannot attend at the European Council-----
-----so what is he doing? One puts the responsibility on those who make the decision. At the end of the day, it is the European Council. Deputy Boyd Barrett raised the matter of the veto. We have a veto because it has to be approved eventually by the entire European Council. Ireland has a veto, along with every other country if they so wish, and that is contained clearly within the rules and regulations. If at the end of the day, when it is all over and done with, and a proposition comes - the European Parliament will have its say - to the European Council, if Ireland is not in agreement, Ireland has a veto, the same as everybody else-----
Of all the countries-----
Yes, our priorities are set out, very clearly, and backed unanimously by the other 26, which I think is important.
Let us see what happens. There is a British election on at the moment-----
-----and there is much talk about hard Brexits and cliffs and all the rest of it-----
-----but what the British Government wants is the closest possible relationship with the European Union, which includes us. If one is going to have the closest possible relationship, one has to be able to deal with the question of the British Government leaving the Single Market and the changed status-----
-----of its trading relationship. That is what the negotiations are about.
I will finally address what Deputy Eamon Ryan said-----
-----about why we cannot move on to discuss these things as needs be. We have inserted a clause that if substantial progress is being made on the principal issues here-----
-----on the modalities, principals and liabilities, the question of reciprocal rights for citizens and the question of the Border-----
If these matters are making substantial progress, people would be inclined to talk about the issues the Deputy mentioned.
I agree with Deputy Micheál Martin. Despite all the criticism of and cynicism about politics, at least there is political answerability in the sense that a Minister in charge of something like this would face instant dismissal. The situation is that this person has been acquitted and is not guilty of any offence. As a result, the taxpayer takes up all the costs involved. The indications given by Judge Aylmer are very clear, as the Deputy has pointed out. The ODCE is a statutory independent body. Its mother Department, the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, has no responsibility or power of enforcement. The ODCE takes its own legal advice. There were gardaí attached to the ODCE in the beginning but they were not involved in the way this case was taken. The judge did point out that the most fundamental error was the way in which they went about taking evidence from the auditors of Anglo Irish Bank, who were both from the firm of accountants involved. He said that it was intended that their statements would be taken in the normal way by members of the Garda Síochána who were then attached to the ODCE. Instead, however, the statements were obtained through solicitors from a legal firm. The ODCE pointed out that it has now undergone substantial organisational change and that it was simply not equipped to undertake parallel investigations on the scale involved. I want to say this: I have not spent the past six years as head of Government and making very difficult decisions only to hear again now the allegation in respect of white-collar crime that people can walk away, that nobody is guilty and that nothing is being done about it.
Let us, as a Parliament, decide what we must do with an organisation like the ODCE. I can confirm that when the Minister for Education and Skills, Deputy Bruton, had responsibility for jobs, requests by the ODCE to his then Department for resources were granted. Now I find that the ODCE says it was simply not equipped to take parallel investigations on the scale involved. I can confirm that the Minister has asked the Director of Corporate Enforcement for a full report, including on the role of all professionals involved in this case. That report will cover the issues involved since 2008 when this case commenced - almost ten years ago. Nothing is ruled out. When Deputy Catherine Murphy had her full group, she put forward a proposition for a statutory standing body in the Dáil to deal with matters of corruption and so on.The Minister will bring this before Government in due course. The Government will consider it next week, but I want the Minister to carry out an absolute review of what happened. It is not good enough. I agree with Deputy Micheál Martin. We cannot have a situation where an independent statutory agency that does not take legal advice from the Office of the Attorney General proceeds on its own and seeks resources from the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation. Despite provision of the latter, this trial collapsed. We know why the first trial collapsed.
We heard the condemnation of a judge yesterday who had said that this case cannot proceed any further.
The Government will consider the matter on Tuesday next. The Minister will bring her report in due course. I would expect representatives from the ODCE to go before the relevant Oireachtas committee as well.
Yes, the Minister will come before the Dáil, make a full statement and answer all questions in so far as she can at this point. Two things are important in this instance. First, the ODCE is an entirely independent statutory authority. Therefore, it is not subject to Government direction. Second, the trial was under way. While concerns were being raised, it would not have been possible to interfere with a trial that was under way in the courts. The comments made by Judge Aylmer speak for themselves. They are an indictment of the ODCE. The ODCE had some success in 2014 and 2016. In April of this year, a person was arrested and charged with fraudulent trading based on an invoice relating to a fraud and entered a plea of guilty. I think that the ODCE looked for resources and expertise, in so far as I can understand this, and that those requests were granted. When the ODCE says that it was simply not equipped to undertake parallel investigations on the scale involved, one would have thought that there would have been a specific request for the capacity to take in necessary expertise or whatever, either through Government or from outside sources, to deal with parallel investigations. In any event, it was not possible for Government to intervene in any way in a pending court case and was not possible for Government to give directions to an independent statutory body. Since the current director was appointed, quite a number of changes have taken place. That does not deal with the fact that this case has gone on for ten years and is one of the longest and most expensive in the history of the State. The taxpayer has to pick up the tab here because the person who was acquitted yesterday has already been declared bankrupt. The Minister will come before the Dáil, make a statement, give a report and answer questions on this. She is to receive a full and detailed report from the Director of Corporate Enforcement-----
-----and keep people fully informed -----
-----as to the options that are open to us now.
Deputy Adams makes the point that there was not a seriousness about the investigation. The point is-----
-----that this office was set up to oversee companies and to deal with those that stepped out of line. It has its independence and statutory authority and therefore it was not subject, and is not subject, to direction by the Minister or the Government, although it was set up by the Government for a very specific purpose. When the current director was appointed with effect from August 2012, the ODCE's investigation on the FitzPatrick case had been completed and the file passed to the Director of Public Prosecutions. The scale and complexity of the investigation into the affairs of Anglo Irish Bank was unprecedented in the history of the State, as Deputy Micheál Martin pointed out. In light of the complexities of modern corporate law enforcement, the current director has overseen a number of organisational improvements in the ODCE.Those improvements include reorganising the structures of the office, recruiting additional expertise, most notably five forensic accountants, because clearly in the determination of the case in the first place the forensic analysis was not strong enough. A digital forensic specialist is due to begin with the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in the coming weeks. Fundamentally, it has amended the investigative procedures used by the office with members of the Garda Síochána now taking the lead on all criminal investigations. This is where there has clearly been a weakness in the system. While the ODCE may deal with civil cases at a lower level, when it comes to serious criminal law, we need to be able to deal with it with serious criminal forensic intent. That obviously was not what was followed here, as outlined by Judge Aylmer in his comments yesterday. There have been a number of successful prosecutions. Clearly, the judge has made a decision. The trial is over and Mr. FitzPatrick is a free man. The taxpayer takes up the tab here. The Minister has requested a full and detailed report from the director of the ODCE. The Minister will come before the Dáil, make her statement and answer questions. The director is prepared to go before the appropriate Oireachtas committee. The Government will reflect on this next week and when the report from the director becomes available to the Minister, it will be published and made available for everybody. We need to reflect on the fundamental question here. 
Is the ODCE fit to deal with the situation that might arise here-----
-----or do we need far greater clarity and other expertise to be made available, either from Government level or elsewhere, to deal with complex criminal law? I am informed the European Space Agency supports over 2,000 high-tech jobs in Ireland, with increasing employment and funding when it is necessary.
Judge Aylmer made the point the ODCE completely lost sight of the nature and extent of the evidence on guilt and innocence. It completely lost sight of what was involved. The Deputy said there is no robust legislation in place here. In 2014 two gentlemen were convicted for the giving of unlawful financial assistance by Anglo for the purchase of its own shares. In 2016 both of them were convicted for fraudulent trading on foot of a plea of guilty. The second conviction was for failing to maintain a bank register of loans to directors on foot of a plea of guilty. The law in those cases actually worked in respect of white-collar crime. The Deputy mentioned comments made by the then Minister in 2015.When the current director was appointed in 2012, the investigation of the FitzPatrick case had been completed. It is in the space before the current director was appointed that the judge made his damning comments in regard to the structure and management capacity of the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement, ODCE, at that time. I would expect that when Mr. Drennan appears before the Oireachtas committee, he will provide every detail necessary to point out the changes in structure that apply now. The question is whether the ODCE is now fit for purpose or whether we need to clarify where the criminal law kicks in.
The Deputy mentioned that the investigative procedure should be thorough, accurate and convincing and everybody supports that.
Clearly, the position that applied with the investigation carried out by the ODCE in the FitzPatrick case was none of those.The judge himself made the point, which is a damning indictment of the procedure that was followed here, that the ODCE had completely lost sight of the nature and the extent of the evidence in respect of guilt and innocence. Everybody before the Irish courts is innocent until proven guilty. Now, the longest running trial in the history of the State has collapsed, the central individual is now free and acquitted and the taxpayer must take up the tab. All of these issues - a lack of procedural capacity, lack of investigative capacity and lack of forensic analysis competence - were all evident in the structure of the ODCE prior to the current director being appointed in August 2012 where serious changes have taken place. The Minister will outline that to the Dáil and take questions on it. Director Drennan will be happy to go before the Oireachtas committee and have a serious discussion about it. The Government will reflect on this next week. The Minister will produce and publish the report when it is made available to her by the director. The Minister, Deputy Noonan, and the Government have already commented on the IPO in respect of a portion of AIB being sold on and being applied to the reduction of debt. He has already made the point that it is a paper transfer in terms of whatever the value of the 25% being offered amounts to. The Government is not under any pressure to deal with this because the question of infrastructure is one it is now considering in terms of the capital review. All of the extent of the capital programme at the moment is up to €42 billion between State agencies, PPPs and the Exchequer. Yesterday, I pointed out the scale of what is available that is as yet unallocated, which is now the subject of a review here. It is also important, as Deputy Howlin is well aware, that we do not want a situation where we apply so much money to infrastructure that all of the inflation costs then result and developers continue to make the rewards from all of that. It is much more important that the infrastructural needs are dealt with, and we are able to deal with these. Yesterday, both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform were in Europe talking to the European Investment Bank about a number of major infrastructural projects, which can be accommodated through lending from the EIB at low interest rates long term. Issues have already been mentioned, like the development of the metro, like the development of the major motorway from Cork to Limerick and others where potentially there is a stream of income that can come from those to pay off those loans. I respect the fact that the House made a decision last week in respect of a matter in regard to AIB, but Deputy Howlin will also respect the right and the responsibility of Government to make its decisions, and this decision has been publicly announced by Government for quite a long time and will stand in the context of what Government is doing.
I am glad the Deputy is using his office as leader of his party to talk to others internationally. That is part of an important negotiation in which Ireland has always been involved in order that others fully understand our position. It is applied in the case of Brexit and the main priorities for our country. I hope the Germans have listened carefully to what the Deputy had to say. We voted for the fiscal stability treaty.
We voted for the rules here in a referendum, the only country to do so in the middle of a recession, and we voted 60:40 for that. The Deputy is right that it is not about the question of money being available; it is about the extent of how much we can spend. That is a very valid point, and I take that point. In the context of setting out what it is we can do in terms of infrastructure development, we need to consider that.
For example, the Government put €5 billion on the table in respect of social housing and we are struggling to get local authorities to measure up to the requirements. We gave them the money to buy houses, to reconstruct houses, to build houses and to have private enterprise come onto public lands to build social housing. It is a real challenge.
Many of the developments, such as the Gort-Tuam project and the Rosslare bypass, are under way. These are major developments. The point the Deputy makes about the extent of fiscal space and the capacity to spend money is an issue we are considering and will continue to consider. The question about AIB is a decision we have already made as a Government and we will follow through on it. The question of flexibility is a matter the Minister, Deputy Noonan, is dealing with all of the time.
The Deputy is a decent man too. I respect his right to raise in the House any issues he feels strongly about. When the predecessor to this Government was elected, we were blocked out of all the international markets, bond yields were at 15%, the unemployment rate was 15.2%, we were haemorrhaging jobs by the ten thousands, and there was despair and disillusionment all over the place. Now, because of the sacrifice of the people, that has changed considerably. We are now able to borrow money for the State at less than 1%. The unemployment rate is down to 6.3% or 6.4% and is heading in the right direction. More than 225,000 jobs have been created since the Minister, Deputy Bruton, introduced the first Action Plan for Jobs. The Deputy referred to the recruitment of nurses. The Minister, Deputy Harris, has addressed this on a number of occasions. There are now incentives for nurses. Permanent contracts are offered to all new nurses coming out of highly specialised training here in Ireland. There are opportunities for nurses to return home to work in the hospital service here in Ireland. Not everybody will do that. Young people in all walks of life tend to move to other countries for experience in travel and to develop their skills. The Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, has been working very hard on the issue of mental health. Yesterday she went to the Linn Dara facility where only half of the 22 beds are occupied. During her visit she was given assurances that any patients discharged from the Linn Dara facility are children who are discharged for clinical reasons only. The HSE confirmed to the Minister of State that no young person will be discharged unless deemed clinically appropriate by their mental health team. Nobody is being discharged to allow a bed to be closed. The HSE has also assured the Minister of State that for patients who are discharged for clinical reasons, dedicated follow-on support is available from the community-based child and adolescent mental health services, CAMHS. They will continue to be provided as required on a routine basis. The Health Service Executive will also increase the capacity of the child and adolescent mental health day services during the summer to enhance the level of support available for those children and their families. The core issue facing the Linn Dara facility relates specifically to staff recruitment difficulties for mental health professionals, which unfortunately, as the Deputy has pointed out, reflects wider health system recruitment and retention issues. I assure the Deputy that the problem facing the Linn Dara facility does not relate to funding availability but to staffing availability. Intensive efforts are under way to increase staffing to allow more beds to be reallocated. The HSE is actively engaged in a recruitment process, with a number of staff due to support the service in the near future. I hope that will improve things. An allocation of €15.5 billion is now going into the health services. All nurses coming out of Irish training institutions are offered permanent contracts giving them the opportunity to work at home here in our own hospitals.
I am very proud of the people of this country for responding to an unprecedented economic crisis in a way that has made us the envy of many in Europe and has left us with the fastest growing economy in the European Union for the past four years running.
I admit that we have many challenges ahead but the changes that have been brought about have put the country in a much safer position than was the case previously.
No doubt Deputy Gino Kenny has spoken to many constituents who have been treated by the health service and who have nothing but praise for the doctors, nurses and attendants who looked after them. The problem has always been to get into the system and to have the capacity to deal with that. That is why the Government has treated the health service as a priority, why €14.5 billion has been allocated and why changes are constantly being made through primary care centres, home-care packages and the provision of community care teams to look after people. In respect of the payment situation the Deputy made for nurses, the same arguments are made for gardaí, members of the Defence Forces, teachers, public servants and others. Those talks are now beginning in full with officials from the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform and the trade unions. The Minister hopes to engage intensively in those talks now with a view to concluding them by the end of June, and getting an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement where benefits were won and agreed with the unions involved. In respect of the matter relating to pensions, I will, when I leave this seat, continue to be paid as a backbench Deputy.
It is a valid question. I read the reports to which Deputy Micheál Martin refers and, from what I understand, the perpetrator's family came from northern Africa in order to live in Manchester in England.That has been replicated in a number of other locations here. These savage acts of terrorism were carried out by people from local bases. When one considers any event, concert or major sporting occasion in any country or here, no matter where one puts the perimeter of security people must congregate and move to where the event actually takes place and this movement is always outside of that perimeter. I have looked at the situation and have called a meeting for 7.30 a.m. tomorrow of all the agencies in defence, justice, transport and health. We will look at the situation in Ireland. I was very impressed with the immediate response to the tragedy of the first responders in Manchester.
The Deputy raised a couple of important points. When the O'Toole commission gets going it will look at security in policing. There is an issue as to whether or not we should have a security and intelligence unit as a separate structure and how it currently operates. We will reflect on that. It is important for the Government of the day to give assurance to people that everything humanly possible is being done and put in place to protect the innocent people and citizens of our country.
We will do that and we will share the information as far as we can with the House because it is important to get this right.
While we cannot proceed on the basis that everything is calm and rosy and that nothing could happen here, the levels of security are at moderate which means that it is possible but not likely.
There is not any reason as to why that might change, but tomorrow I will meet with the agencies.
I have always favoured a two-state solution in this respect. The Government has always said that the recognition of Palestine would have to be in the context of that recognition contributing to a two-state solution. This has gone on since 1948-----
-----and this country has tried its damnedest on many occasions to bring about a situation where people can agree that there should be that two-state solution. Part of this is that Ireland has always said the recognition of Palestine is certainly quite possible, provided it leads or assists-----
-----towards a two-state solution so that people can live normal lives and not have to put up with the constant barrage, either way, which is what they have to do at the moment.
I thank Deputy Howlin.I am glad Deputy Howlin accepts the bona fides of the Minister in terms of the explanation he gave him. I will be meeting him after lunchtime and I will have that conversation with him and advise the Deputy further, later today.
As I understand it, the Department of Health commenced its policy review of A Vision for Change, beginning with an evidence-based expert review of international evidence of best practice and of existing service development. This was completed in February of this year and will inform the next stage of the policy review process. A review of the Mental Health Act 2001 is also being progressed. I do not have the intended date of publication but I will advise the Deputy of it. She also asked about the oversight committee. I will come back to her on both of those issues, if I may.
The Deputy referred to the scrutiny of Bills, which is right and proper. He also referred to the process as "stuff". The pre-legislative scrutiny of Bills is very important and enables all Deputies elected to this House to have their say about what might, should or should not be in any particular Bill. The scrutiny to which the Deputy referred is very important. I have had a letter from the Ceann Comhairle requesting that I meet him and the chairpersons of the committees to discuss the question of the process for Private Members' Bills, such as the Bill introduced by the Deputy, of which there are now 140 backed up.
Whatever the number is, they are delayed. The question is how to prioritise these Bills, including Deputy Kenny's Bill, in order that they can move through the process. I do not accept that there is an attempt to stymie the Bill, to delay it or not to have it put through. What happens is that a number of Private Members' Bills are accepted but when they go through to the next Stage, the Department or the Minister has to do an extensive amount of work on them to make them suitable for purpose, taking into account the original intent of the Private Members' Bill. The members of the committee are not subject to my direction.
They are entitled to have their say and they should have their say. That is the reason they were elected. Bills must go through the process.
This is not a legislative matter.
Yes, but it is not a legislative matter. It is a management matter. If it is agreed by the HSE, the hospital, the Department and the Minister that the unit should open on 29 May, then the arrangements will have been made for that. I do not have the details of whether everything is in order, but if they all say it will open on 29 May, I expect it to happen.
I will mention it to the Minister, Deputy Harris, with whom I have an engagement after lunch, and I will confirm the position for the Deputy afterwards.
I have been in many kitchens where the Stanley was the centrepiece and raised many families. It is a wonderful product.
Drogheda is a big town and is growing in size and population. The living city initiative is continually reviewed. We have tried different things in the past 30 or 40 years and have offered various incentives to different locations. There was tax relief, which entailed lines being drawn on different streets. That created its own problems as smart accountants were able to get around the legislation and build developments that were never thought of, while areas outside the delineations suffered. Many premises which are derelict and in need of repair are left that way by owners expecting a payday when the economic situation improves.That question also needs to be looked at. In the first instance, the local authority should prepare a programme justifying why the living city initiative should be extended to Drogheda. It should also point out the initiatives it is taking to improve the lot, perspective and definition in the aforementioned town. There should also be discussions with those who own derelict buildings. The council have a responsibility in that regard and it is not good enough that such buildings in town centres are left for 20 years to rot, fall down and be a disgraceful aspect when they could be put to far better use.
The council should prepare its programme to justify why the living city initiative should be extended to that region.
Deputy Danny Healy-Rae is aware of the statutory responsibility of each local authority to produce its development plan. Councillors, who are the elected representatives of the people, have a direct say in that plan. If Deputy Danny Healy-Rae is telling me that the majority of planning applications in Kerry are being turned down at pre-planning stage-----
------what is the nature of the buildings that are being proposed?
Are they on top of hills? Are they between the road and the sea? Are they too extensive? Are they too elaborate? Pre-planning discussions concern those issues. A person may say he or she wants to build a house which is completely out of order in the location they are proposing and it will be found at pre-planning stage that the house is unjustified but something else might be justified in that location. These discussions have been had in the past and there is an answer to every problem. Sometimes planning will not be allowed and-----
I do not know the details in this regard but the Government made deliberate decisions in respect of lower-paid workers across all sectors on the issues of USC, of ensuring no payment of income tax at lower levels, in reversing cuts in the minimum wage and in following through with the Low Pay Commission's recommendations. I will get the details and will follow through.
No, there has been no discussion at the Cabinet table about the idea of a directly-elected mayor for Dublin. I see much value in the idea. Deputy Coveney is involved in other consultations at the moment but I will get back to Deputy Ryan to see if there is anything in the Department that is moving on this issue.
I will advise Deputy Ellis of what is the current situation on this issue. This has not come before Cabinet in the recent past. I will revert to the Deputy.
I believe in ConnectIreland and engaged with it in a very detailed way to get it set up. The theory was that people working abroad for different companies, which were considering investing in Europe, would ask that the companies consider investing in Ireland. If they did decide to invest in Ireland there would be a reward fee for the director to the country here, provided that the jobs were sustainable and that they actually became a reality. It has worked reasonably well in small areas that would not be the focus of the IDA. While it might provide four, ten or 20 jobs in those areas, they had the potential to grow. There were discussions between ConnectIreland and the IDA. There was the question of re-tendering contracts. I cannot provide the up-to-date detail as of today but I will find out. The plan was worth following. It has produced a number of jobs, perhaps not as many as expected, but nonetheless it was important for rural Ireland.
A combination of assistance between the local authority, the Garda, the transport authorities, communities, etc. is required here. I will advise the Deputy of the progress this is making.
Yes, it is on the priority list but I will have to advise the Deputy on the progress that is being made internally in the Department.
The Cabinet committee on social infrastructure considered this yesterday. The working family payment is a priority for the Government. It will have benefits for many working families over and above what is there at present. I will advise the Deputy as to the intended dates for further progress.
A full-time contract is offered to every nurse who comes out of training. The opportunity is there for nurses to work in Irish hospitals and in the Irish health system. Hopefully, they will do so. As the Deputy is aware, discussions are now under way at official level - to be followed by ministerial discussions - on the extension of the Lansdowne Road Agreement. I hope that a conclusion can be brought to those discussions before the end of June.
The Deputy will agree that vetting of those who work with young people is incredibly important, particularly in view of what we went through here for 50 or 60 years and all of that. I could never really understand why a passport system is not available for those who, as the Deputy says, train children in one club and coach in another.
If a person is properly vetted and deemed appropriate to work with children in school X, the same should apply in school Y, whether it is for music, sport or whatever. That is being worked on and I hope we can arrive at an agreement as to how it can happen. We do not want a situation, however, in which somebody could fall through a crack in the system. It has got to stand up and be effective.
These measures have been a success, as Deputy McLoughlin is aware. I hope the facilities that have been committed to from Tralee to the Athlone and in the western region will be marketed by IDA Ireland and will attract interest from direct investors into the country. Approximately 1,500 jobs are being created each week. As broadband capacity and the infrastructure opportunity are rolled out, it makes it much more attractive for jobs to be created outside the greater Dublin region. As the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, Deputy Mitchell O'Connor has pointed out on a number of occasions, the Government's decision has been to invest in creating the vast majority of jobs outside the greater Dublin region in terms of IDA Ireland. That approach is backed up by Enterprise Ireland's being able to expand many of the firms that export at the moment. Deputy McLoughlin's local facility in Sligo is being presented and promoted by IDA Ireland and I hope that process will be successful soon.
I travelled to Canada between 3 and 6 May. This was the first visit to Canada by a serving Taoiseach in more than a decade and it provided an opportunity to develop and strengthen the important bilateral relationship between our two nations, which share deep historic ties and enjoy strong trading relations. Over the centuries, Canada has been an important destination for Irish immigrants. Today, over 4.5 half million Canadians - more than 14% of the country's population – claim direct Irish ancestry. During my visit I had a series of engagements with political, business and civic society representatives in Montreal and Toronto and met a number of existing and potential new IDA Ireland and Enterprise Ireland client companies. These engagements provided very useful opportunities for me to promote Ireland as a location for trade and investment, as well as to emphasise our commitment to the EU and outline Ireland's priorities in the context of Brexit. While in Montreal, I met Prime Minister Trudeau. We discussed the trade relationship between Ireland and Canada and Ireland's strengths as a location for trade and investment into Europe. We also considered ways to further strengthen the economic and trade relationship between our two countries, and agreed to prioritise the opportunities offered by the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA. I also updated the Prime Minister on Ireland's Brexit priorities and outlined to him the current position in Northern Ireland. The Prime Minister reiterated to me the Canadian Government's continued support for the Northern Ireland peace process. Members will be aware of the part played by John de Chastelain in decommissioning terrorist arms in that process. Also in Montreal, I attended a business lunch with senior members of the Montreal business community at which I met potential and current investors in Ireland. I also visited the school of Irish studies at Concordia University where I met members of the Irish diaspora. In Toronto, I addressed an Enterprise Ireland event and an event hosted by the Ireland Canada Chamber of Commerce, both of which provided me with opportunities to meet current and potential investors in Ireland. I addressed a Tourism Ireland event and visited Ireland Park, the Irish Famine memorial in Toronto, which is a magnificent site. I also paid a courtesy call on the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario, Elizabeth Dowdeswell. My programme concluded with a meeting with members of the board of the Irish Canada Immigration Centre and other representatives of the Irish diaspora and an event with representatives of the Ireland Fund in Canada.  This was a very successful visit which I believe will provide a platform to further strengthen the bilateral relations between Ireland and Canada. I expect relations will be further enhanced during the trade mission to Canada that will be led by the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, Deputy Mitchell O'Connor, from 30 May to 2 June.
I discussed CETA with the Canadian Prime Minister, Mr. Trudeau. Actually, as Deputy Howlin is aware, Canadian views are very much in line with Irish views on the benefits of trade agreements and the benefits of properly used globalisation for jobs. They are keen to have the agreement operate in the interests of both countries. Some 50% of foreign direct investment from Canada goes directly to Britain. Since the United Kingdom is moving out of the European Union and the Single Market, this is clearly an opportunity for this business to thrive. I gather there are now flights from Montreal, Toronto and St. John's to Ireland on a weekly, if not daily, basis. I think four airlines are coming in. They are keen on that. The agreements provide a range of sectoral opportunities for Irish companies in Canada in financial software, telecommunications, digital technology, agricultural machinery, life sciences and medical devices. CETA was signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels by representatives from Canada, EU and member states. The EU and Canada have also agreed a legally binding agreement, a joint interpretative instrument, which has been added to CETA to provide further assurances in respect of public services, labour rights, environmental protection and investment. A number of steps remain to be taken on both sides before this becomes fully operational. Meanwhile, aspects of CETA will be provisionally applied by both sides beginning, I hope, this summer. The provisional application of the trade agreement is a standard process in agreements of this sort. It allows those parts of the agreement for which the EU has competence to come into force, including reductions in tariffs on our exports, which will apply to 99% of exports. However, the provisions of CETA relating to investment protection will be excluded from provisional application. The European Parliament voted in favour of the provisional application of CETA in February. The process of ratification is now commencing in member states. Canada is now finalising its internal implementation procedures to allow for ratification. I understand that Canadian Senate approval was secured on 11 May and the Bill now awaits royal assent. I spoke to Canadians about beef, which was an issue here with the Irish Farmers Association. Canada is allowed 15,000 tonnes under the original agreement. Canada finds this difficult to meet because most beef from Canada goes the other way – it goes west to Asia. CETA increases that but it will be difficult for Canadians to meet that level.
There will be a Dáil debate, obviously. We will have it as soon as possible.
I hope so; there is no reason why not.
The Canadian Prime Minister, Mr. Trudeau, is keen to get this moving. Under the provisional agreement those of us on the EU side can move on it. Let us have this debate as quickly as we can.
In respect of refugees-----
The question of refugees was raised. Canada is looking for more people. Those who cross the border from the United States, other than at formal crossings, are received with open arms and are being housed. They include 40,000 Syrians. The community in Ballaghaderreen has responded. They are making wonderful efforts to integrate our Syrian refugee people.
The reason that erupted was that the Italian people were suggesting that we should take refugees or people without any vetting. Ireland refuses to do that because we need to know where they are from and, in so far as we can determine it, who they are.
I am unsure whether we are close to resolving it but our people went down there on several occasions.
May the force be with you.
I agree. We will have a debate on free trade with Canada in respect of the Deputy's request. I will see that it happens. It is a very good thing. For the Deputy's information, the provisional application is a standard part of trade agreements and allows those parts of the agreement on which the EU has competence to proceed. CETA provides for provisional application, as the process for ratification across all member states may take a number of years. In Ireland's case, the Dáil will be part of the final decision, which is not what the Deputy was talking about there but a debate on the benefits of free trade. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine has observed many times that we export Irish agricultural products to over 180 countries and that is where our strength is built, the Deputy rightly points out. The Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation supports the provisional application as it allows for Irish medium-sized enterprises to export tariff-free to Canada. Finally, I point out that 38,000 emigrants from Ireland - immigrants to Canada - went to Toronto in 1847, when the population of that city was only 20,000. They were welcomed with open arms. I want to commend Robert Kearns and his people on the wonderful memorial they have built on the shores of the lake there to those Irish emigrants. They are now moving to commemorate the medics who worked with people from the Irish community, many of whom died from diseases such as typhoid and cholera. This is an important debate which we will have.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 2 to 5, inclusive, together. Last July, the Government launched a major initiative for the Dublin north inner city with the establishment of a ministerial task force to oversee the long-term social and economic regeneration of the area. At the time of the launch a number of short-term measures were announced to help the community address some of the immediate challenges facing it and these are mostly completed, having been progressed by the responsible Departments and agencies. This has resulted in €1 million invested in sports and youth projects in the area, €700,000 spent on local community projects targeting children and youth, including some drug projects. A further €3 million has been spent on improvement works to the area, including roads, housing areas, parks and lighting and refurbishment of the Sean McDermott swimming pool. Further investment will take place in response to the publication of Kieran Mulvey's independent report in February and the Government's agreement to implement his recommendations in full. The first step has been the establishment in the local area of the programme implementation office with staff assigned from Dublin City Council. In addition, the Secretary General of my Department established an oversight group last month to oversee preparatory work across a number of Departments. The next step is for the ministerial task force, which I chair, to appoint an independent executive chairperson who will lead the work and engage with community structures and local residents. That person will be based in a premises and office in the north inner city.
A number of things are important here. The Mulvey recommendations said to set up a north inner city programme implementation board, a north inner city programme office, a new community consultative forum and a local programme working group. The programme implementation office has been established in the area and has commenced work on a number of actions. An independent executive chairperson, referred to by Deputy Howlin and others, will have the lead responsibility for the programme implementation board. I expect that person to be appointed very shortly and hopefully we can do it before I leave this seat.
The person will be based in the north inner city working closely with community groups, as Deputy Maureen O'Sullivan and Deputy Haughey said, and with Dublin City Council in making these arrangements. Once appointed, arrangements for the remaining board to include community representation will be finalised. A meeting of the community consultative forum will convene following appointment of the chair to ensure there is ongoing wider community participation and feedback on various aspects of the programme. The Secretary General of my Department has established an oversight group to support the work of the ministerial task force and to ensure these actions are monitored and implemented. That group held its first meeting on 6 April and discussed progress and a list of actions from the Mulvey report. It is expected to meet again today. Some of the things that have happened are €1 million was invested in sports and youth projects, a multi-use games pitch in Sheriff Street community centre, a fit-out of the new premises for Ballybough boxing club, improvement works to pitches at Sheriff Street youth club and Larkin Community College. Small grants and equipment were distributed to about 40 local youth groups and sports clubs and a local GAA and soccer coaching programme was supported. I was glad to see the Deputies out at Scoil Uí Chonaill in Clontarf the other day. A full-time local sports co-ordinator was employed to make the most of the local facilities and get people involved. There was €700,000 spent on community projects targeting children, including the successful Bally Mac Sheriff Halloween festival, local library and school based projects targeting reading and digital skills, the Brighter Futures restorative practice projects across two age groups in the area and funding for third level access programmes. There were 15 local drugs projects supported and grants to support local arts projects and men's sheds community garden project, which were all very successful. There was €3 million spent on the physical improvement of Ballybough House and Courtney Place, Ballybough and road resurfacing works at Sean McDermott Street, Railway Street, Cumberland Street North, James Joyce Street, Beaver Street and Buckingham Street Upper to improve the physical aspect of the place. There were improvement works in Mountjoy Square and Portland Place park and internal and external refurbishing of the Sean McDermott Street pool. I congratulate former chief superintendent Leahy who was appointed by the independent Policing Authority to be assistant commissioner. He was a superb policeman, really on top of his job and I hope his successor will do the same. Deputy Haughey raised the issue of gangland crime and the checkpoint. It is unnerving but necessary, given the situation that has applied there for some time. The Garda Commissioner is overseeing the operation of the Garda special crime task force to enhance the response to organised crime. The task force has been in operation since July 2016, has made serious inroads and has a big success rate. Operation Hybrid was established to co-ordinate the response to violent crime in the area and address public concerns about community safety. Operations are reviewed on a weekly basis to maintain that kind of impetus. The Government has approved an extra €55 million for An Garda Síochána to assist in a number of initiatives including concentrated policing which targets gang-related crime. Obviously we will look at the question of Fitzgibbon Street Garda station being opened. It is an iconic building and there is work to be done there. I will go down there on Monday with the Minister, Deputy Donohoe, to look at many of these projects. Joe Costello and others are all welcome to turn up in the afternoon.
I mentioned Scoil Uí Chonaill. Community involvement is very important. We will see it happens. Deputy Adams raised some of the issues I have read out. I will visit the area next Monday. Deputy Howlin mentioned local groups. The Secretary General of my Department is The points made by Deputy Haughey, O'Sullivan, Adams and Howlin are all valid in this case.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 6 to 8, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee for the economy, trade and jobs last met on 10 April 2017. The next meeting will take place shortly.
Deputy Micheál Martin is right that the outcome of Brexit will have profound implications. There is no denying that as this is a totally new situation. When Article 50 was written, no one envisaged that a country would decide to leave the European Union. This has happened, however. In addition, the British Government, in respecting the wish of the electorate, has decided to remove the UK from the Single Market. A changed situation arises in respect of the trading negotiations. It is true that we export 90% of what we produce. Some elements involved in addressing this will be to have a much stronger concentration on the eurozone and arrange trade missions to sell the agricultural and food products we produce. The agriculture sector is already under pressure. As Deputy Micheál Martin is aware, currency fluctuations mean we are down €500 million in six months. Our response has been to provide low interest, longer-term loans and increase the capacity of Enterprise Ireland to further assist exporting companies.
No, €500 million was lost as a result of fluctuations in the value of sterling. In respect of the European Medicines Agency and European Banking Authority, we have applied to have both agencies relocate here and we are obviously in competition with other countries. The matter will go through the normal process and will come before the European Council for final decision in the autumn. There are major implications and opportunities for whichever location is chosen. Ireland has made a case for hosting both organisations and we will compete with many other countries. Deputy Adams referred to customs controls. The official who spoke at the joint committee last week was referring to hypothetical scenarios. We have an agreement politically that there will be no return to the Border of the past. Nobody wants to have a situation such as that which applied at the Killeen crossing and right along the Border for years and which brought with it, as Deputy Adams is aware, sectarian violence and militarisation. As I stated previously, if, arising from the Brexit discussions, tariffs are not applied to goods moving between the Republic and Britain or Britain and the rest of Europe, we will still have two different jurisdictions and a way will have to be found to deal with that. What we agreed with the British Government and Mr. Michel Barnier, who addressed the Dáil only a short time ago while standing next to where Deputy Adams is seated, was that the solution will have to be creative and imaginative. The independent members of the Revenue Commissioners will say that they may well have a job to do here and will look at the different options. However, the committee also agreed that it is not clear what will be the outcome. What is clear is that there is a political  Designated status is an issue I have always referred to in the sense of our particular and unique circumstances, which were outlined to the House by the chief negotiator on behalf of the European Union when he referred to our citizens, economy, jobs and relations with the United Kingdom, the protection of the common travel area, our place in Europe and the fact that we do not want to return to what we had before. We unreservedly condemn the latest atrocity in Manchester. I was glad to hear the First Minister, Ms Arlene Foster, express the hope the other day that an Executive would be formed. While there are political differences, it is important that the Executive faces in the direction of the future and we will be able to have the North-South Ministerial Council, the cross-Border agencies and the development of infrastructure into the North, which are very important for the future.  I will have to revert to Deputy Howlin with some detail on the matter he raised. I do not want to lead him astray but I think the issue is related to the arrival in Ireland of a great deal of intellectual property from corporate firms, which caused a spike in the figures.
I will provide the Deputy with detail on the position if I may.
I travelled to Canada between 3 and 6 May. This was the first visit to Canada by a serving Taoiseach in more than a decade and it provided an opportunity to develop and strengthen the important bilateral relationship between our two nations, which share deep historic ties and enjoy strong trading relations. Over the centuries, Canada has been an important destination for Irish immigrants. Today, over 4.5 half million Canadians - more than 14% of the country's population – claim direct Irish ancestry. During my visit I had a series of engagements with political, business and civic society representatives in Montreal and Toronto and met a number of existing and potential new IDA Ireland and Enterprise Ireland client companies. These engagements provided very useful opportunities for me to promote Ireland as a location for trade and investment, as well as to emphasise our commitment to the EU and outline Ireland's priorities in the context of Brexit. While in Montreal, I met Prime Minister Trudeau. We discussed the trade relationship between Ireland and Canada and Ireland's strengths as a location for trade and investment into Europe. We also considered ways to further strengthen the economic and trade relationship between our two countries, and agreed to prioritise the opportunities offered by the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA. I also updated the Prime Minister on Ireland's Brexit priorities and outlined to him the current position in Northern Ireland. The Prime Minister reiterated to me the Canadian Government's continued support for the Northern Ireland peace process. Members will be aware of the part played by John de Chastelain in decommissioning terrorist arms in that process. Also in Montreal, I attended a business lunch with senior members of the Montreal business community at which I met potential and current investors in Ireland. I also visited the school of Irish studies at Concordia University where I met members of the Irish diaspora. In Toronto, I addressed an Enterprise Ireland event and an event hosted by the Ireland Canada Chamber of Commerce, both of which provided me with opportunities to meet current and potential investors in Ireland. I addressed a Tourism Ireland event and visited Ireland Park, the Irish Famine memorial in Toronto, which is a magnificent site. I also paid a courtesy call on the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario, Elizabeth Dowdeswell. My programme concluded with a meeting with members of the board of the Irish Canada Immigration Centre and other representatives of the Irish diaspora and an event with representatives of the Ireland Fund in Canada.  This was a very successful visit which I believe will provide a platform to further strengthen the bilateral relations between Ireland and Canada. I expect relations will be further enhanced during the trade mission to Canada that will be led by the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, Deputy Mitchell O'Connor, from 30 May to 2 June.
I discussed CETA with the Canadian Prime Minister, Mr. Trudeau. Actually, as Deputy Howlin is aware, Canadian views are very much in line with Irish views on the benefits of trade agreements and the benefits of properly used globalisation for jobs. They are keen to have the agreement operate in the interests of both countries. Some 50% of foreign direct investment from Canada goes directly to Britain. Since the United Kingdom is moving out of the European Union and the Single Market, this is clearly an opportunity for this business to thrive. I gather there are now flights from Montreal, Toronto and St. John's to Ireland on a weekly, if not daily, basis. I think four airlines are coming in. They are keen on that. The agreements provide a range of sectoral opportunities for Irish companies in Canada in financial software, telecommunications, digital technology, agricultural machinery, life sciences and medical devices. CETA was signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels by representatives from Canada, EU and member states. The EU and Canada have also agreed a legally binding agreement, a joint interpretative instrument, which has been added to CETA to provide further assurances in respect of public services, labour rights, environmental protection and investment. A number of steps remain to be taken on both sides before this becomes fully operational. Meanwhile, aspects of CETA will be provisionally applied by both sides beginning, I hope, this summer. The provisional application of the trade agreement is a standard process in agreements of this sort. It allows those parts of the agreement for which the EU has competence to come into force, including reductions in tariffs on our exports, which will apply to 99% of exports. However, the provisions of CETA relating to investment protection will be excluded from provisional application. The European Parliament voted in favour of the provisional application of CETA in February. The process of ratification is now commencing in member states. Canada is now finalising its internal implementation procedures to allow for ratification. I understand that Canadian Senate approval was secured on 11 May and the Bill now awaits royal assent. I spoke to Canadians about beef, which was an issue here with the Irish Farmers Association. Canada is allowed 15,000 tonnes under the original agreement. Canada finds this difficult to meet because most beef from Canada goes the other way – it goes west to Asia. CETA increases that but it will be difficult for Canadians to meet that level.
There will be a Dáil debate, obviously. We will have it as soon as possible.
I hope so; there is no reason why not.
The Canadian Prime Minister, Mr. Trudeau, is keen to get this moving. Under the provisional agreement those of us on the EU side can move on it. Let us have this debate as quickly as we can.
In respect of refugees-----
The question of refugees was raised. Canada is looking for more people. Those who cross the border from the United States, other than at formal crossings, are received with open arms and are being housed. They include 40,000 Syrians. The community in Ballaghaderreen has responded. They are making wonderful efforts to integrate our Syrian refugee people.
The reason that erupted was that the Italian people were suggesting that we should take refugees or people without any vetting. Ireland refuses to do that because we need to know where they are from and, in so far as we can determine it, who they are.
I am unsure whether we are close to resolving it but our people went down there on several occasions.
May the force be with you.
I agree. We will have a debate on free trade with Canada in respect of the Deputy's request. I will see that it happens. It is a very good thing. For the Deputy's information, the provisional application is a standard part of trade agreements and allows those parts of the agreement on which the EU has competence to proceed. CETA provides for provisional application, as the process for ratification across all member states may take a number of years. In Ireland's case, the Dáil will be part of the final decision, which is not what the Deputy was talking about there but a debate on the benefits of free trade. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine has observed many times that we export Irish agricultural products to over 180 countries and that is where our strength is built, the Deputy rightly points out. The Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation supports the provisional application as it allows for Irish medium-sized enterprises to export tariff-free to Canada. Finally, I point out that 38,000 emigrants from Ireland - immigrants to Canada - went to Toronto in 1847, when the population of that city was only 20,000. They were welcomed with open arms. I want to commend Robert Kearns and his people on the wonderful memorial they have built on the shores of the lake there to those Irish emigrants. They are now moving to commemorate the medics who worked with people from the Irish community, many of whom died from diseases such as typhoid and cholera. This is an important debate which we will have.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 2 to 5, inclusive, together. Last July, the Government launched a major initiative for the Dublin north inner city with the establishment of a ministerial task force to oversee the long-term social and economic regeneration of the area. At the time of the launch a number of short-term measures were announced to help the community address some of the immediate challenges facing it and these are mostly completed, having been progressed by the responsible Departments and agencies. This has resulted in €1 million invested in sports and youth projects in the area, €700,000 spent on local community projects targeting children and youth, including some drug projects. A further €3 million has been spent on improvement works to the area, including roads, housing areas, parks and lighting and refurbishment of the Sean McDermott swimming pool. Further investment will take place in response to the publication of Kieran Mulvey's independent report in February and the Government's agreement to implement his recommendations in full. The first step has been the establishment in the local area of the programme implementation office with staff assigned from Dublin City Council. In addition, the Secretary General of my Department established an oversight group last month to oversee preparatory work across a number of Departments. The next step is for the ministerial task force, which I chair, to appoint an independent executive chairperson who will lead the work and engage with community structures and local residents. That person will be based in a premises and office in the north inner city.
A number of things are important here. The Mulvey recommendations said to set up a north inner city programme implementation board, a north inner city programme office, a new community consultative forum and a local programme working group. The programme implementation office has been established in the area and has commenced work on a number of actions. An independent executive chairperson, referred to by Deputy Howlin and others, will have the lead responsibility for the programme implementation board. I expect that person to be appointed very shortly and hopefully we can do it before I leave this seat.
The person will be based in the north inner city working closely with community groups, as Deputy Maureen O'Sullivan and Deputy Haughey said, and with Dublin City Council in making these arrangements. Once appointed, arrangements for the remaining board to include community representation will be finalised. A meeting of the community consultative forum will convene following appointment of the chair to ensure there is ongoing wider community participation and feedback on various aspects of the programme. The Secretary General of my Department has established an oversight group to support the work of the ministerial task force and to ensure these actions are monitored and implemented. That group held its first meeting on 6 April and discussed progress and a list of actions from the Mulvey report. It is expected to meet again today. Some of the things that have happened are €1 million was invested in sports and youth projects, a multi-use games pitch in Sheriff Street community centre, a fit-out of the new premises for Ballybough boxing club, improvement works to pitches at Sheriff Street youth club and Larkin Community College. Small grants and equipment were distributed to about 40 local youth groups and sports clubs and a local GAA and soccer coaching programme was supported. I was glad to see the Deputies out at Scoil Uí Chonaill in Clontarf the other day. A full-time local sports co-ordinator was employed to make the most of the local facilities and get people involved. There was €700,000 spent on community projects targeting children, including the successful Bally Mac Sheriff Halloween festival, local library and school based projects targeting reading and digital skills, the Brighter Futures restorative practice projects across two age groups in the area and funding for third level access programmes. There were 15 local drugs projects supported and grants to support local arts projects and men's sheds community garden project, which were all very successful. There was €3 million spent on the physical improvement of Ballybough House and Courtney Place, Ballybough and road resurfacing works at Sean McDermott Street, Railway Street, Cumberland Street North, James Joyce Street, Beaver Street and Buckingham Street Upper to improve the physical aspect of the place. There were improvement works in Mountjoy Square and Portland Place park and internal and external refurbishing of the Sean McDermott Street pool. I congratulate former chief superintendent Leahy who was appointed by the independent Policing Authority to be assistant commissioner. He was a superb policeman, really on top of his job and I hope his successor will do the same. Deputy Haughey raised the issue of gangland crime and the checkpoint. It is unnerving but necessary, given the situation that has applied there for some time. The Garda Commissioner is overseeing the operation of the Garda special crime task force to enhance the response to organised crime. The task force has been in operation since July 2016, has made serious inroads and has a big success rate. Operation Hybrid was established to co-ordinate the response to violent crime in the area and address public concerns about community safety. Operations are reviewed on a weekly basis to maintain that kind of impetus. The Government has approved an extra €55 million for An Garda Síochána to assist in a number of initiatives including concentrated policing which targets gang-related crime. Obviously we will look at the question of Fitzgibbon Street Garda station being opened. It is an iconic building and there is work to be done there. I will go down there on Monday with the Minister, Deputy Donohoe, to look at many of these projects. Joe Costello and others are all welcome to turn up in the afternoon.
I mentioned Scoil Uí Chonaill. Community involvement is very important. We will see it happens. Deputy Adams raised some of the issues I have read out. I will visit the area next Monday. Deputy Howlin mentioned local groups. The Secretary General of my Department is The points made by Deputy Haughey, O'Sullivan, Adams and Howlin are all valid in this case.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 6 to 8, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee for the economy, trade and jobs last met on 10 April 2017. The next meeting will take place shortly.
Deputy Micheál Martin is right that the outcome of Brexit will have profound implications. There is no denying that as this is a totally new situation. When Article 50 was written, no one envisaged that a country would decide to leave the European Union. This has happened, however. In addition, the British Government, in respecting the wish of the electorate, has decided to remove the UK from the Single Market. A changed situation arises in respect of the trading negotiations. It is true that we export 90% of what we produce. Some elements involved in addressing this will be to have a much stronger concentration on the eurozone and arrange trade missions to sell the agricultural and food products we produce. The agriculture sector is already under pressure. As Deputy Micheál Martin is aware, currency fluctuations mean we are down €500 million in six months. Our response has been to provide low interest, longer-term loans and increase the capacity of Enterprise Ireland to further assist exporting companies.
No, €500 million was lost as a result of fluctuations in the value of sterling. In respect of the European Medicines Agency and European Banking Authority, we have applied to have both agencies relocate here and we are obviously in competition with other countries. The matter will go through the normal process and will come before the European Council for final decision in the autumn. There are major implications and opportunities for whichever location is chosen. Ireland has made a case for hosting both organisations and we will compete with many other countries. Deputy Adams referred to customs controls. The official who spoke at the joint committee last week was referring to hypothetical scenarios. We have an agreement politically that there will be no return to the Border of the past. Nobody wants to have a situation such as that which applied at the Killeen crossing and right along the Border for years and which brought with it, as Deputy Adams is aware, sectarian violence and militarisation. As I stated previously, if, arising from the Brexit discussions, tariffs are not applied to goods moving between the Republic and Britain or Britain and the rest of Europe, we will still have two different jurisdictions and a way will have to be found to deal with that. What we agreed with the British Government and Mr. Michel Barnier, who addressed the Dáil only a short time ago while standing next to where Deputy Adams is seated, was that the solution will have to be creative and imaginative. The independent members of the Revenue Commissioners will say that they may well have a job to do here and will look at the different options. However, the committee also agreed that it is not clear what will be the outcome. What is clear is that there is a political  Designated status is an issue I have always referred to in the sense of our particular and unique circumstances, which were outlined to the House by the chief negotiator on behalf of the European Union when he referred to our citizens, economy, jobs and relations with the United Kingdom, the protection of the common travel area, our place in Europe and the fact that we do not want to return to what we had before. We unreservedly condemn the latest atrocity in Manchester. I was glad to hear the First Minister, Ms Arlene Foster, express the hope the other day that an Executive would be formed. While there are political differences, it is important that the Executive faces in the direction of the future and we will be able to have the North-South Ministerial Council, the cross-Border agencies and the development of infrastructure into the North, which are very important for the future.  I will have to revert to Deputy Howlin with some detail on the matter he raised. I do not want to lead him astray but I think the issue is related to the arrival in Ireland of a great deal of intellectual property from corporate firms, which caused a spike in the figures.
I will provide the Deputy with detail on the position if I may.
I thank the Deputy. I do not accept that it is falling apart at the seams. I had a meeting with Deputy Browne and the Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, just last week where we discussed all of this. Funding for mental health, as Deputy Martin knows, has gone up from €826 million last year to €853 million this year, 2017. Over 160 additional posts have been recruited for the HSE mental health area over January to March this year. Recruitment campaigns are carried out to fill further vacancies and they are under way. Sanction has been given and money provided to recruit 114 assistant psychologists to enhance the early intervention primary care counselling services for under 18s in particular and to relieve pressure on the specialist CAMH service. The development of a plan for a 7/7 mental health care improvement nationally has been progressed and is nearing completion. It has prioritised that all areas provide access to a weekend service for current service users and not have situations where nobody has access to a service if he or she needs it. A full mapping exercise is being carried out countrywide. The HSE, at present, is consulting with all of the personnel in the health sector area and assessing the resource implications to develop costed actions. In addition, of course, the construction of the new 120-bed hospital to replace the Central Mental Hospital in Dundrum after over a century, along with a new ten-bed forensic CAMHS unit and a new ten-bed mental health intellectual disability unit, has been advanced. The Minister expects to sign that contract very shortly. Award of the construction contract is due to happen quite quickly. It has been recently agreed that in addition, the contract will also include a new 30-bed intensive care rehabilitation unit. These are all positive signs of progress in an area that was neglected for so many years and was, over 30 years, the Cinderella of many Health Service Executive Votes and Department of Health Votes. When former Deputy Dan Neville was in opposition on that side of the House, he raised this matter consistently. I am glad that the Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, is making valiant efforts to deal with this. Funding for this area includes youth mental health, improvement of the CAMHS and the adult services, services for older people, out-of-hours services, enhanced service user and carer engagement, perinatal mental health, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, ADHD, in adults and children, dual diagnosis of those with mental health and substance abuse issues, increased services to meet the needs of those with severe and enduring mental illness with complex presentations and improved specialist clinical responses through clinical programmes. Deputy Martin raised a specific case in respect of 11 beds. I do not have the details of that here, but I will undertake to follow up on that for him. I know it is an issue of concern locally, and Deputy Browne might have referred to that. Believe me, the Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, is working very hard in this area. The improvements I have outlined are long overdue and it is hoped they will make a significant improvement for the health, in particular the mental health, of children and young adults.
Let me clear up a few things for Deputy Martin. First, intensive efforts are under way to maintain the services at Linn Dara CAMHS unit at Cherry Orchard, Ballyfermot. The Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, is in regular and very close contact with the HSE in regard to the particular difficulties of providing adequate staffing, and meetings are under way this very afternoon. Clearly, however, there are staffing difficulties at this facility. At present, the unit is reliant on providing cover through methods such as staff working additional hours, overtime and agency staff. However, the core issue facing Linn Dara at present relates specifically to staff recruitment difficulties for mental health professionals. I pointed out to the Deputy that 160 have been recruited from January to March this year and an additional 114 assistant psychologists have been approved and are now under recruitment. Let me clear this up for Deputy Martin. The problem facing Linn Dara does not relate to funding availability or the restructuring of any of the CAMHS services.
Let me assure people that any discharges from Linn Dara are clinical decisions and are planned discharges. No individual will be discharged to close beds. Let us be clear about that. The HSE is actively engaged in a recruitment process for Linn Dara and is meeting this afternoon. It is exploring every option to ensure this excellent service remains fully operational.
As I said, there has been an increase in moneys and the number of staff this year. Further approval has been given and no child is being sent out of Linn Dara because of either funding difficulties-----
They are planned discharges. No individual-----
No individual will be discharged to close beds. It is not a question of money-----
It is a question of staffing difficulties. Anybody discharged is a planned, clinical discharge.
I have already referred to the Linn Dara situation where a meeting is taking place this afternoon. Sanction has been given for the recruitment of personnel already from January to March this year, including a further 114 assistant clinical psychologists. The difficulty with the Linn Dara facility is not funding but is a question of staffing difficulties. Serious efforts are being made today on a continuing basis to deal with that matter. I hope it can be dealt with conclusively and positively. It is not a case of the usual claim of a shortage of money. Some 1,100 new posts have been provided for mental health and sanctioned and filled between 2012 and 2016. There was additional substantial funding of more than €115 million. Budget 2017 provided further additional funding for mental health, which means that the HSE funding for this key care programme will increase from €826 million in 2016 to more than €850 million this year. In budget 2017, an additional €35 million was allocated for services to be initiated in 2017. The Deputy is talking about north Louth, which, no more than any other part of the country, still has inadequate services. The range of what I have outlined, which is of particular to the Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, is evidence of the Government's continuing commitment to dealing with this. The Deputy mentioned A Vision for Change. A review of the 2001 Act is under way.As I mentioned to the Deputy last week, some points made by Deputy Browne are being taken into account. In line with A Programme for a Partnership Government, the Department recently commenced a policy review of A Vision for Change. This began with the evidence-based expert review of international best practice and existing service development. The latter was completed in February of this year and it will inform the next stage of a policy review process and that will take into account the review of the Mental Health Act. The Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, chairs a task force that comprises a diverse group of 18 people from a number of different mental health sectors - public, private, community and voluntary. The task force has a balance of age, gender and diversity and is an action-focused group which has been meeting monthly over the past year. As part of the Minister of State's commitment to ensuring that the voices of children and young people are at the very heart of the work of the task force, a series of consultations with young people themselves has now commenced. The task force and the public consultation process organised by the Minister of State are very active. The detail of what the Deputy referred to in north Louth is a matter on which I can follow up. The overall picture is one of increasing funding and approval, sanction and recruitment of qualified staff to provide the best level of service for children and young people on a 7/7 basis so that nobody is left without attention when they need it.
Nothing is acceptable to Deputy Adams no matter how good or adequate it might be. What is acceptable, however, is the fact that the budget has increased from €826 million to €853 million for this year. What is acceptable is that 1,100 posts have been filled since 2011. What is acceptable is that 160 additional posts have been recruited and filled between January and March of this year and that recruitment campaigns are currently under way and being followed through diligently. What is acceptable is that sanction has been given for an additional 114 assistant psychologists to enhance early intervention primary care counselling services for those under 18 years of age in particular. What is acceptable is the development of a plan to improve 7/7 mental health care nationally. That has been progressed and is nearing completion. What is acceptable is that this has been prioritised in all areas and should be in a position to provide access to a weekend service for current service users, including those in north Louth and many other areas throughout the country. What is acceptable is that a full mapping exercise has been carried out. The HSE is consulting all health sector personnel and assessing the resource implications in order to develop costed actions. I will follow up in respect of the particular issue Deputy Adams mentioned in north Louth but, overall, this was a Cinderella sector of society where there was not a voice to carry it forward. It is evident that this matter is now, and will continue to be, a central priority of the Government.The Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, is doing very diligent work in this area and it is proving to be progressive. It is not yet there, by any means, in terms of it being a world-class standard but it is a very significant improvement indeed on what was left lying in isolation for so many years.
Sometimes I find it hard to pick up all of Deputy McGrath's words but I think I heard him say that he wanted some insanity brought into this-----
I think I heard him say he wanted some insanity brought to the situation. That seems to be what he said.
If I heard him correctly, the Deputy said that the situation requires that insanity be brought to bear.
Perhaps the sound is a bit off.
In any event, the Deputy's comments about primary care centres are in the context of a full programme of primary care centres being provided throughout the country. The theory is that people will be able to go to primary care centres to have medical needs which do not require treatment in accident and emergency departments dealt with and that this will help to reduce overcrowding in accident and emergency departments. When primary care centres are up and running they are required to be staffed and to have GPs available. There is little point in building them if they are going to be closed at 5 p.m.. The theory is that a person should be able to go to a primary care centre on a 24-hour basis, as is the case in so many other countries. This issue forms part of the discussions which the Minister for Health is having with the GPs in terms of their contracts and the types of facilities that they require in primary care centres. According to the HSE TrolleyGAR system this morning, there were 331 patients on trolleys in acute hospitals nationally. While this causes distress to patients, their families and to front-line services, the recent data indicates that the national situation is improving, with approximately 5% fewer patients waiting on trolleys at the end of April this year as compared with the same period last year. Notwithstanding this improvement, these figures are still too high and the Department is working assiduously with the HSE to identify measures to reduce overcrowding in our hospitals and to provide key improvement measures that will continue to reduce trolley numbers and improve patient experience. Several hospitals were under pressure this morning, including the Mater Hospital, Beaumont Hospital, St. Luke's General Hospital, Kilkenny, Letterkenny General Hospital and University Hospital Waterford. Lessons have been learned over the last number of years. The winter initiative introduced in an effort to reduce emergency department overcrowding, in respect of which an additional €40 million was provided, brought about an improvement. Lessons have been learned from that and will be implemented into the future. A range of practical measures were included in that initiative, including the provision of 90 additional beds, aids and appliances for approximately 5,000 patients, 1,000 additional home care packages and 615 additional transitional care bed approvals. In regard to the particular issue raised by Deputy Mattie McGrath, I will ask the Minister to follow up on the matter for him.
There is nothing wrong with Tipperary or its people but I am sure they are a little disappointed after Sunday.
They will try to come back at the Reds the next time.
We are at the job a long time.I will ensure that the Minister for Health, Deputy Harris, comes back to the Deputy about the particular issue he raised. When facilities are provided, either by the taxpayer or through PPPs, they are provided for a particular purpose. It is up to management to make them work in the best interests of all the people by giving the best level of service. I take the Deputy's point.
If all the facilities are there, they should be made to work in the interests of people. I will ensure that the matter is followed up with the Minister for Health.
This is an important subject. The Government has prioritised disability by appointing Deputy Finian McGrath as Minister of State at the Department of Health to sit at the Cabinet table and articulate the concerns and anxieties relating to this area on a regular basis. Disability funding has increased over the past year and early intervention services and services for school-age children with disabilities need to be improved and organised more effectively. This process is well under way and the HSE is engaged in reconfiguring its therapy resources into geographically-based teams for children aged from birth to 18. The objective of the new model of assessment and intervention is to provide a single, clear referral pathway for all children, irrespective of the disability they have, where they live or the school they attend, as evidence shows that is an important element of progress. Some €8 million in additional funding was invested in 2014-2015 in order to provide 200 additional posts to support the implementation of that model. A further €4 million in additional funding was allocated in respect of 75 therapy posts in 2016 and it is expected that as this reconfiguration of services takes place it will have a significant impact on the HSE's ability to meet the needs of children and young people in a much more efficient, effective and equitable manner. In 2013, 260 front-line primary care staff positions were approved.That included 52 occupational therapists and 52 speech and language therapists. The aim is for that recruitment to continue which will lead to a reduction in waiting lists and times. A further €4 million was provided in that regard in 2014. Since the June 2007 commencement of Part 2 of the Disability Act 2005, the HSE has endeavoured to meet its legislative requirements as specifically referred to by Deputy Healy. The number of applications for assessment under the Act has increased each year since it was introduced. It is anticipated that in excess of 6,000 applications will be received this year. It can take a significant period to determine accurately the nature of a disability which a child might have. Although there has been continual investment in this area, there are significant challenges in meeting the statutory timeframes which apply to the assessment of needs process. The Minister of State at the Department of Health, Deputy McGrath, is dealing with the delay in assessments. He is trying to resolve those delays by direct consultation. There is an ongoing recruitment campaign to combat the issue of staff shortage. The Minister of State is working with the HSE to deal with this in order that the requirements of the Act can be met by the HSE and there are no delays beyond the period for assessment and determination of a disability.
It is not acceptable for any State agency to be outside the legal requirements of what it has to do. The Minister of State at the Department of Health, Deputy McGrath, who has special responsibility for disability issues, sits at the Cabinet table, has a substantial budget and is working assiduously to deal with this issue. If there are 6,000 assessments to be carried out this year, more than 100 must take place each week. Many of these assessments are quite complex and take a period of time to assess accurately.
As the Deputy knows, parents have every right to know the nature and scale of the disability that their child or children may have to deal with. The Act itself-----
There has been much collaboration between the health and education sectors on the issue of children's disability. That is facilitated by the cross-sectoral team and the implementation of the Disability Act. That team comprises representatives of the Department of Health, the Department of Education and Skills, the Department of Children and Youth Affairs, the HSE executive, the National Council for Special Education and the National Educational Psychological Service. As Deputy Healy is aware, a detailed report was compiled by Mr. Eamon Stack, chairman of the National Council for Special Education, which sets out a progressive way of dealing with the issue. While waiting lists are unacceptable and should not exist, the Minister of State is at the forefront of dealing with the delays. In the near future, it is hoped the law in terms of assessment for children will be fully complied with, unlike the current situation where children have to wait for longer than they should.
This is very distressing. On behalf of the Government and, while the President is away, all of the people of Ireland I would like to extend our deepest sympathy to the people of Great Britain on the dreadful attack which took place in Manchester last night. The atrocity is made all the more appalling by its deliberate targeting of young people and families, the targeting of innocence and enjoyment, as they began to make their way home from the Manchester Arena. For those who have had the opportunity, and indeed privilege, of bringing their children to a concert like this, the excitement goes on for months beforehand. It is a huge adventure for young people and young children. We think of parents who bring their children to a concert venue and leave them outside to go in and participate in the adventure. To think that some of them last night never came back and never will come back is appalling. What was potentially a night of absolute enjoyment was transformed into a nightmare in which at least 22 people have lost their lives and so many others have been injured. These are reminders of the depravity of the views of a few. These beliefs have no place in our society. I spoke with the Tánaiste and the Garda Commissioner early this morning about the situation. I was due to speak to the Prime Minister about other matters earlier this morning but we have rescheduled that conversation for later on this evening. Our embassy had its lines open all night in London and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Flanagan, and Ambassador Dan Mulhall have been available to offer any assistance that is appropriate. COBRA, the security briefing committee, met this morning with the Prime Minister chairing it. Our security levels here are monitored very carefully by the Tánaiste, the Garda Commissioner and the Garda authorities. That level remains at moderate, which means an attack is possible but not likely. The situation for people around the country is that we have a very detailed level of shared information with other countries. The reason that this level has not been increased in Ireland is that we do not have any evidence of it being beyond the moderate stage. That is not the situation in Great Britain, where evidence of planned attacks exists. The Prime Minister speaks for the British Government in that respect. Last night's attack is a reminder that no one is immune from those whose hatred of our values drives such evil acts. I assure the public that all the necessary measures are being taken by our authorities here to counteract such deadly threats. The Garda authorities will continue to work very closely with our UK and EU counterparts and other countries in responding to the threat of international terrorism and violence inspired by extremists. There can never be any justification for the brutal inhumanity displayed in Manchester last night. The number of children caught up in these events makes it particularly hard to bear for all of those involved. Our thoughts and prayers are obviously with the victims and their families and all of those who are affected by this atrocity. People in our country are heartbroken by this. The city of Manchester has such exceptionally close ties with this country for so many reasons over so many years. We support them absolutely. Listening this morning to the Mayor of Manchester, and the Mayor of Liverpool whose children were at this concert last night, gives us a sense of how a predetermined atrocity can impact in so many ways and cause such devastation for families.I will speak to Prime Minister May later this evening in respect of any details of which we should be aware and any assistance our Government, people and agencies can offer the British people at this time.
I do not object to Deputy Martin's request. It would be good if, at an appropriate time, Members had an opportunity to contribute to a debate on disabilities and hear directly from the Minister of State, Deputy McGrath, regarding the efforts and improvements being made in this area. I will be happy to facilitate Deputy Martin.
The Deputy makes the point that this is a matter of rights. While it is a matter of rights, it is also a matter of procedures and follow through. We could have ratified the convention without being able to fulfil what it means. In this country, we have always taken the view that we deal with the legislation, put it through and implement it and then ratify conventions so that we can stand over them and say we ratified a convention because the necessary legislation was in place. I have answered questions in the House about this issue for a number of years. A suite of legislation had to be passed. Believe me, the Minister of State, Deputy McGrath, has raised this matter at Cabinet on a number of occasions and we are coming close to reaching a conclusion. That is the story. I will have the Minister of State respond to the House on this matter. It is not a case of dragging heels but getting the legislation through properly - the last piece of it is quite sensitive - and then ratifying the UN convention in order that we can stand over it.
Deputy Burton is well aware from her time as a Minister of what happens here. These are recommendations from the European Commission. Obviously, the Government takes these things into account but as we speak, the Ministers for Finance and Public Expenditure and Reform are meeting in Brussels with the European Investment Bank about the very issue of infrastructure in order that a proposition can be put forward by which funding and a stream of income resulting from major pieces of infrastructure can be put forward. Elements of that would be, for instance, the metro for Dublin or, for instance, the major motorway required from Cork to Limerick, in respect of which a stream of income would come to fund loans for those propositions and more to follow. Deputy Burton is well aware that there is a €42 billion programme for infrastructural investment here. The review of the capital programme out to 2021 is currently under way. The AIB situation has been referred to by the Minister for Finance on many occasions, a Cheann Comhairle. That is a paper exercise. When the testing of the 25% share sale is gone through, that will be used for debt reduction. The Commission is entitled to make its views known, as it has. It has made its views known on Apple and it has made its views known on other things, but the Government would be very careful to manage prudently our economic affairs in the interests of our people-----
-----leaving us room to have infrastructure development. Deputy Burton does not want a situation in which we have an oversupply of money going into it, where construction inflation results and where developers reap the rewards. We need to have a balance between what we put in and the output that we get.
Gabh mo leithscéal.
I do not want to comment on court announcements made in respect of any particular case.
The judgment will be given tomorrow, the jury has not been discharged and I do not wish to make any comment, or cannot make any comment, on that. Obviously, in terms of party politics, there are contests that take place at different times for positions of responsibility. The Government has a programme here, and we refer to that programme, which is set out and agreed, for support both from inside Government and from outside Government. One of the issues that has arisen in respect of the Garda, for instance, is for it to have access to the Workplace Relations Commission, WRC, and the Labour Court. The legislation that is being drafted for that will take into account some serious matters that need to be considered, one of which is what the Deputy refers to, but that is an element of what Government is doing here and willing to do in respect of giving the members of the Garda full representation and hearing at the WRC and the Labour Court. There are consequences and there are issues that need to be dealt with, and they must be addressed in some detail when the Bill comes before the House.
That Bill is currently going through the House and is due for a Second Stage debate here tomorrow. I am sure that Deputies from all over the House and different parties will have their opportunity to have their say in detail about this.
This is being taken on Private Members' tomorrow evening, as Deputy Connolly is aware. Caranua is an independent statutory body that provides a range of approved services in the areas of health and personal social services, education and housing services for applicants. It began accepting applications from former residents in January 2014. It has expended some €60 million in support of 4,000 individuals.
Yes. The Minister, Deputy Bruton, announced a consultation on-----
-----proposed draft terms of reference for a review of eligibility for Caranua.
Maybe the Minister might like to respond to the particular question that Deputy Connolly raised.
This is an important issue for the patients and the families involved. It is not just a question of general legislation. I will have the Minister respond directly to the Deputy.
Deputy Ó Broin raises an important point. Obviously, others have had reductions, but we do not hear about those too often. The heads of this Bill were cleared in April by Government. There has been quite a deal of discussion between the Attorney General's office and the Department. I expect that when the Bill comes before the House and is cleared for discussion, that the intent will be to have a comprehensive response to a situation that I know causes difficulties where increases in rates occur.
It is not a matter of legislation. There has been a substantial increase in the number of planning permissions applied for and granted, and these apply in all cases. Clearly, local authorities and the transport authority have an issue in respect of more exits on national routes. We have had occasions in the past where roads have lost their national secondary or primary status because of the incidence of new exits - traditionally through section 4 notices - given that there is a matter of road safety involved where that happens. That is a matter for discussion between local authorities and the transport authority. In respect of the planning guidelines, obviously, any couple or individual applying for planning permission in the Deputy's county or anywhere else goes through a preplanning discussion with their local authority. It is not national guidelines that are imposed in the vast majority of cases. This can be seen in the rate of increase in the number of planning applications applied for and approvals granted, which is substantial.
The Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform is in Brussels today. I am sure he will have no objection to a discussion on the mid-term capital review, in respect of which work is under way.
I think these are publicly available in any event but I do not expect the Minister will have any objection to that.
Given that these are matters of public issue in any event, I do not see any reason for secrecy about priorities that are deemed important by Ministers. I will have that matter taken up with the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform.
The Deputy raises two issues. One is in respect of the Bill, which is on Committee Stage in the Seanad. While it has not yet come to the Dáil, it will do so in due course. Obviously, Members will have an opportunity to voice their opinions on it. The second point the Deputy raises relates to the statistics that are produced. In the context of statistics involving the Garda Síochána, there is an analysis going on in respect of another element of the statistics, which I expect will be quite detailed, and that can be followed through with regard to these statistics also. Unfortunately, domestic violence is an issue in Ireland. It causes havoc for families and family relationships, with a particularly dramatic and traumatic impact on children.
That is not a matter for legislation; it is a matter for decision by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine. I will have him respond to Deputy Collins. He is well aware of the details of the matter.
I agree that farmers went out of their way to attempt to deal with the consequences of these fires. I deplore the actions of those who started these fires in the first instance. They were obviously unable to contain what happened afterwards and this resulted in massive destruction to property, assets and value, and also in terms of the impact on wildlife and nature in so many ways. For those who have been victimised by these acts of arson, if that is what they were, we cannot expect them to have the State suddenly say, "You are responsible for this yourself". If the land is blackened and the trees burned and if people's assets are decimated, I think it is an issue that needs to be looked at with some degree of compassion and consideration. It is a valid point and we will consider it very carefully.
The intention was that the scheme would be operational and effective from September of this year. The heads of the Bill and the general scheme were approved by the Government on 20 January 2017. The joint Oireachtas committee met on 8 February for pre-legislative scrutiny and its report was received on 23 February. On 22 February, the Department of Children and Youth Affairs received formal notification from the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel that a draftsperson was assigned specifically to work on the affordable childcare scheme Bill. The Office of the Parliamentary Counsel and the Department of Children and Youth Affairs started work together on the drafting of the Bill in March and this work is ongoing. No date is yet confirmed for when the drafting of the Bill will be complete. Nonetheless, the Government is conscious of the position and wants to make arrangements so that payments under the scheme will become effective in September. This is quite a complicated Bill and the timeline is tight, but it is hoped it can be met.
The intention here is clear. I will have the Minister, Deputy Bruton, respond directly to the Deputy.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 6, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on infrastructure, environment and climate action has met on five occasions since it was reconstituted in June 2016. The last meeting of the Cabinet committee took place on 15 May 2017. The next meeting of the Cabinet committee will be scheduled shortly.  My Department provides the secretariat to the Cabinet committee on infrastructure, environment and climate action and chairs the associated senior officials' group. The Cabinet committee oversees the development and delivery of key infrastructure and associated policy, including oversight of relevant commitments in A Programme for a Partnership Government. In addition, the committee addresses the climate change challenge in terms of domestic policy and in relation to Ireland's EU and international obligations.
As the Deputy rightly points out, under the mid-term review, the Government will confirm the allocation of the additional €5.14 billion committed for capital investment. Following commitments made in the budget for 2017 and the increase in funding for housing, there is approximately €2.65 billion in uncommitted additional capital through to 2021. Submissions from the Departments are being received by the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform. Public consultation was undertaken in April to inform the view of the capital plan. The Department of Public Expenditure and Reform will assess the submissions received from Departments and make recommendations to Government in the third quarter of 2017 to inform the Government's final decision on revised capital allocations to be announced in the context of the budget for 2018, which will obviously take place in October. The review of the plan will take place in two stages. Phase 1 will be a focused review of priorities, aimed primarily at advising Government in the context of budget 2018 on how the additional capital funding committed by Government should be allocated over the remainder of the plan.Phase 2 will assess and report on the framework required to underpin longer-term analysis of Ireland's infrastructural planning needs. In my address to the Institute of International and European Affairs, Ireland at the Heart of a Changing European Union, I reaffirmed that the national planning framework for spatial planning due to be finalised later this year will be complemented with a longer-term ten-year capital plan.
Could Deputy Nolan repeat the question please?
Which element of the Mahon tribunal is Deputy Nolan talking about?
In respect of the capital expenditure programme, the six-year capital plan published in 2015 set out an Exchequer capital spend of €27 billion. Including the wider semi-State sector and public private partnerships, the total State-backed capital investment is €42 billion. That will support more than 45,000 construction-related jobs. A Programme for a Partnership Government committed to additional capital investment to be allocated in areas such as transport, housing, broadband, health, education, flood defences etc. on the basis of the outcome of the mid-term review of the capital plan. In the summer economic statement of 2016, the Government committed to an additional €5.14 billion in Exchequer capital funding over the period 2017 to 2021. Clearly, the programme for capital investment is very extensive at €42 billion, including all of the different elements of the sector.
I note Deputy Boyd Barrett did not set out the percentage sought. One does not want every development to be-----
The Deputy cannot have that. Is Deputy Boyd Barrett saying we should put all 8,000 social housing residences on one site?
He does not believe that.
Social and affordable housing is different to social housing.
Is Deputy Boyd Barrett suggesting that 8,000 social houses should be put together on one site in Dún Laoghaire or anywhere else?
Deputy Boyd Barrett knows that is not the way it should be, and that one needs a mix of housing types spanning social, affordable, private and so on. There are more development sites for social housing in Dún Laoghaire than the Cherrywood site.
I think the essence of the Deputy's question is whether we can change the balance of the extent of social housing on the site.
I assume the Cherrywood development has already been designed and agreed to achieve a mix of 8,000 residences of various types in an area where there is a massive demand and there has been a lack of supply of housing for some time.
The mix of social housing was not decided by the Government. Deputy Boyd Barrett wants more social housing but others might want less and some might want 100%.
I will bring Deputy Boyd Barrett's query to the attention of the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government.
Not at all.
I think Deputy Martin has some experience of that himself. It is always difficult to get PPPs that work effectively and that can be streamlined to a point where they deliver well. The bundles of secondary schools, of which the Deputy had some experience himself in his time as Minister, have evolved to a very presentable, effective way of delivering high-class building in a short time. As far as I am aware, they have all been under budget and on time. Some of the schools I have been in are enormous and provide every conceivable facility for people to do their job. The role of the committee is to drive the development and the delivery of key infrastructure and associated policy, including the role of NewERA in support of sustainable economic development, job creation and better quality of life. It plays a role in overseeing Ireland's transition to a low-carbon economy, including co-ordination of international negotiations, obligations on energy and climate change and provides oversight of relevant commitments in A Programme for a Partnership Government. As I indicated previously, there is a €42 billion programme involving 45,000 construction jobs. I was talking to some of the developers and operators recently and I was informed that construction on the Gort to Tuam motorway scheme and the New Ross bypass are under way. I think the Gort to Tuam motorway is ahead of time and will make a major impact.
The new-----
It has not come before Cabinet yet but I think it will shortly.
The €42 billion plan is the one that is under review at the moment, in respect of the €5 billion to be allocated, but the expanded version of that dealing with PPPs and other sectors brings it to €42 billion between now and the mid-2020s.
Deputy Ryan will be aware of the public consultation that took place on the draft national mitigation plan, and which closed on 26 April with 124 submissions received. A number of important issues were raised regarding the adequacy of the current policy responses and the clarity of national sector plans in meeting Ireland's national and European targets. The Departments are working with the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment to review the submissions with a view to strengthening the draft plan ahead of its presentation to Government next month. The Minister, Deputy Naughten, is establishing the advisory group - and Deputies are aware of this - to guide the activities of the national dialogue during its initial two-year phase. That membership will be drawn from public, private and NGO bodies. The first meeting of the advisory group is to take place in June this year. The group will be supported by a secretariat within the Environmental Protection Agency, which will also manage the administration of the dialogue. Regional gatherings will take place, to begin in the autumn of 2017, and it is also proposed that the dialogue will include the national climate change action and awareness programme in schools and communities. This includes the Green-Schools scheme, expert lectures, and climate expos and events around the climate implications of spatial choices. The advisory group meets in June and there will be an opportunity to set out a comprehensive and worthwhile strategy and to take into account the points made by Deputy Ryan.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 9, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on Brexit met three times in 2017, namely, on 26 January, 8 March and 26 April. It has met a total of eight times since its first meeting in September 2016. In addition, Michel Barnier, the EU negotiator, attended a meeting with a number of members of the committee on 11 May. On 2 May, the Government published a comprehensive document on Ireland and the negotiations on the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. This document sets out the approach of the Government to the forthcoming negotiations, following the successful campaign to have key Irish issues recognised in the EU negotiating position. Following on from this publication, work is under way to prepare a further paper on economic implications of the Brexit challenge. This will draw on the work to date across Departments, which will be developed to mitigate emerging sectoral challenges. The paper will build on ongoing cross-Government research, analysis and consultations and will reflect the core economic themes of the speech I gave to the Institute of International and European Affairs on 15 February. It will include issues such as sustainable fiscal policies to ensure capacity to absorb and respond to economic shocks, not simply from Brexit. There will be plans for policies to make Irish enterprise more diverse and resilient, to diversify trade and investment patterns and to strengthen competitiveness. It will prioritise policy measures and dedicate resources to protect jobs and businesses in the sectors and regions most affected by Brexit. It will realise economic opportunities arising from Brexit and will help businesses adjust to any new logistical or trade barriers arising. The paper will make a strong case at EU level that Ireland will require support that recognises where Brexit represents a serious disturbance to the Irish economy.
Deputies Burton, Nolan and Martin have raised a number of issues. The priorities, as outlined by Mr. Barnier during his visit to Ireland, follow what we had set out ourselves. I am glad that people recognised that. I thank all concerned for acknowledging that these issues formed part of the European Parliament's documents and the European Council decision. As pointed out by Deputy Martin, these have been approved by the General Affairs Council and will form the basis for the negotiations. The first three issues are the principles and modalities for whatever the liabilities are in respect of the UK, the Border issue, and the question of citizens' rights and reciprocal rights. No one underestimates the scale of what might happen. The impact of Brexit on the Irish economy will be significant, particularly if it is not handled in a proper, orderly and responsible way. We share the view, as does everybody else, regarding the need to maintain the closest possible trading relationship between the UK and the EU, but it will be difficult to retain it the same as it is now because if the UK sheds the Single Market, the status in respect of trade will be changed. Let us be clear about it, Ireland's economic interests lie in a strong and well-functioning European Union with continued and unfettered access to the Single Market. It is where our people have continually said they want to be, as voted for in a referendum in the past. This issue is of immense importance to all our small and medium enterprises and companies that export. There will be a great deal of trading on this issue. Nobody is clear on where the road ahead will lead. If there was to be an end to the divorce proceedings in two years and no deal, what would be the outcome of that? The British Government might say that no deal is better than a bad deal, but no deal would be catastrophic in many respects for Ireland. I hope that the conclusions to the negotiations in respect of the first three priorities will bear fruit in order that we can get on to these details. We are developing an economic paper, to which Deputy Martin referred. A number of issues have already been brought to light. We are working to improve the business environment and are examining new trade and investment strategies, with an intensified programme of trade missions. Enterprise Ireland is working with firms to help support product and service innovation; additional staff have been recruited; a €150 million loan was provided in budget 2017 for low-cost loans to farmers; and the national planning framework 2040 will be delivered this year, complemented by a ten-year national capital plan. I agree that we need to be Brexit ready. This means we must build the roadway to the north west to Derry. While there are some legal complications in that regard, we need to get on with our end of it.
It will be important that we make a case to Europe for assistance in that regard. The reason, in part, the Ministers for Finance and Public Expenditure and Reform are in Brussels today is to discuss a range of possibilities under the European Investment Fund. If we can get the Northern Ireland Executive functioning, the North-South Ministerial Council and cross-Border agencies and organisations can begin to work in that regard. All the scenarios are being examined. On the issue raised by Deputy Nolan, we have said that we do not want a return to the type of Border that existed in the past. Taking the scenario that there will be no tariffs on any goods travelling between the Republic and Northern Ireland or between the Republic and Great Britain or  In terms of what we, as a people, have acquired and what the British, as a people, have acquired since 1922 in the common travel area, we are confident we can retain all of that in a bilateral sense between ourselves and Great Britain. As Deputy Martin has often pointed out, when people voted for the Good Friday Agreement, they voted on the expectation of continuing to have European citizenship. All the people in Northern Ireland entitled to Irish citizenship are also entitled to European citizenship. A great deal of activity will take place on these issues. When I discussed this with European leaders, it was agreed that whatever we would do would be in compliance with European legislation and the European legal system because that is where we are staying. While there may be differences in comment from some members of the British Government, we have called for a recognition of our priorities and the particular and unique circumstances that apply in Ireland, but the outcome will have to be in compliance with European legislation and we will see that that happens.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 10 to 14, inclusive, together. I have appointed a new National Economic and Social Council, NESC. The new council will meet on 24 May and I expect that it will discuss its work programme and working methods at that meeting. It is a matter for the council to agree its own working arrangements. The council's remit is to analyse and report on strategic issues for Ireland’s economic, social, environmental and sustainable development. I am keen that the council considers longer-term issues such as housing, broadband, climate change, pensions and long-term funding models in education and health. The NESC, with its track record of engagement and consistent and high quality work on contentious issues, has an important role to play. As the Deputies will be aware, the NESC secretariat continues its work on issues relevant to the programme for Government, including jobless households, social dimensions of the crisis, consumer prices, labour market activation and the funding of higher education. The new council has a reduced membership of three members each from the nominating sectors, seven independents and six public servants. This is in line with the views of the outgoing members around the need for smaller, more focused plenary sessions and a strong representation from the Government side. I will circulate membership of the council for the benefit of Members which includes people from the business and employer sector, the ICTU, the farming and agriculture sector, the community and voluntary sector, the environmental sector, public servants and independent experts.
I had better make a comment but I will keep it short. Deputy Burton mentioned shadow borders. I understand the Commissioner, at the meeting last week, was talking about hypothetical situations. There was agreement at the meeting that the political outcomes would be impossible to quantify until the negotiations got started.The political imperative is that there should be no return to what was there. In that context, and as I discussed with Deputy Nolan on the earlier group of questions, we need to examine issues such as dealing with two different jurisdictions even if there are no tariffs. As already stated, the Commissioner was referring to hypothetical situations. I agree with Deputy Eamon Ryan that the NESC should be more flexible and adaptable. The approach should suggest that. That is the message we will give to the group, although it is within its remit to determine its own working arrangements. In view of the current situation, I agree that it should be more flexible and adaptable. Deputy Nolan's question is somewhat premature, particularly in view of the fact that the meeting will take place tomorrow. All of the groups are represented with the exception of farming and agriculture. Nominees to represent the latter are yet to be confirmed. It is up to those groups to make the nominations. As the Deputy will appreciate, there are some very good people involved in this process. They are going to consider the question of housing, broadband, climate change, long-term funding models in education and health, pensions and any other issues that need to be dealt with. The council will look at the issues of jobless households, the social dimensions of the crisis, consumer prices, labour market activation and the funding of higher education. Deputy Micheál Martin made some interesting observations. Nobody foresaw Brexit six years ago. It was not even on the horizon. Until 11 o'clock on the night before the referendum, those in favour of a leave vote believed it was never going to happen. That it did was an indictment of the failure to have proper political involvement in the context of explaining to people what Brexit was about. There were so many different-----
I am aware of that. The Deputy said that nobody foresaw the economic crisis. One could not have foreseen Brexit. When Fine Gael was in opposition during the years 2002 to 2007, Deputy Bruton repeatedly spoke about the housing bubble and stated that it was going to burst. What was he told? That things would get boomier and boomier.
A person sat in this chair and said that we did not need any more tax receipts from housing. Deputy Michéal Martin knows that the whole thing stagnated for nine months as a result of that. We now have to deal with the repercussions.
I understand that. There is a massive effort to provide supply of houses. I hope that, at its meeting tomorrow, the NESC shows an adaptive approach and deals with these issues.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 6, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on infrastructure, environment and climate action has met on five occasions since it was reconstituted in June 2016. The last meeting of the Cabinet committee took place on 15 May 2017. The next meeting of the Cabinet committee will be scheduled shortly.  My Department provides the secretariat to the Cabinet committee on infrastructure, environment and climate action and chairs the associated senior officials' group. The Cabinet committee oversees the development and delivery of key infrastructure and associated policy, including oversight of relevant commitments in A Programme for a Partnership Government. In addition, the committee addresses the climate change challenge in terms of domestic policy and in relation to Ireland's EU and international obligations.
As the Deputy rightly points out, under the mid-term review, the Government will confirm the allocation of the additional €5.14 billion committed for capital investment. Following commitments made in the budget for 2017 and the increase in funding for housing, there is approximately €2.65 billion in uncommitted additional capital through to 2021. Submissions from the Departments are being received by the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform. Public consultation was undertaken in April to inform the view of the capital plan. The Department of Public Expenditure and Reform will assess the submissions received from Departments and make recommendations to Government in the third quarter of 2017 to inform the Government's final decision on revised capital allocations to be announced in the context of the budget for 2018, which will obviously take place in October. The review of the plan will take place in two stages. Phase 1 will be a focused review of priorities, aimed primarily at advising Government in the context of budget 2018 on how the additional capital funding committed by Government should be allocated over the remainder of the plan.Phase 2 will assess and report on the framework required to underpin longer-term analysis of Ireland's infrastructural planning needs. In my address to the Institute of International and European Affairs, Ireland at the Heart of a Changing European Union, I reaffirmed that the national planning framework for spatial planning due to be finalised later this year will be complemented with a longer-term ten-year capital plan.
Could Deputy Nolan repeat the question please?
Which element of the Mahon tribunal is Deputy Nolan talking about?
In respect of the capital expenditure programme, the six-year capital plan published in 2015 set out an Exchequer capital spend of €27 billion. Including the wider semi-State sector and public private partnerships, the total State-backed capital investment is €42 billion. That will support more than 45,000 construction-related jobs. A Programme for a Partnership Government committed to additional capital investment to be allocated in areas such as transport, housing, broadband, health, education, flood defences etc. on the basis of the outcome of the mid-term review of the capital plan. In the summer economic statement of 2016, the Government committed to an additional €5.14 billion in Exchequer capital funding over the period 2017 to 2021. Clearly, the programme for capital investment is very extensive at €42 billion, including all of the different elements of the sector.
I note Deputy Boyd Barrett did not set out the percentage sought. One does not want every development to be-----
The Deputy cannot have that. Is Deputy Boyd Barrett saying we should put all 8,000 social housing residences on one site?
He does not believe that.
Social and affordable housing is different to social housing.
Is Deputy Boyd Barrett suggesting that 8,000 social houses should be put together on one site in Dún Laoghaire or anywhere else?
Deputy Boyd Barrett knows that is not the way it should be, and that one needs a mix of housing types spanning social, affordable, private and so on. There are more development sites for social housing in Dún Laoghaire than the Cherrywood site.
I think the essence of the Deputy's question is whether we can change the balance of the extent of social housing on the site.
I assume the Cherrywood development has already been designed and agreed to achieve a mix of 8,000 residences of various types in an area where there is a massive demand and there has been a lack of supply of housing for some time.
The mix of social housing was not decided by the Government. Deputy Boyd Barrett wants more social housing but others might want less and some might want 100%.
I will bring Deputy Boyd Barrett's query to the attention of the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government.
Not at all.
I think Deputy Martin has some experience of that himself. It is always difficult to get PPPs that work effectively and that can be streamlined to a point where they deliver well. The bundles of secondary schools, of which the Deputy had some experience himself in his time as Minister, have evolved to a very presentable, effective way of delivering high-class building in a short time. As far as I am aware, they have all been under budget and on time. Some of the schools I have been in are enormous and provide every conceivable facility for people to do their job. The role of the committee is to drive the development and the delivery of key infrastructure and associated policy, including the role of NewERA in support of sustainable economic development, job creation and better quality of life. It plays a role in overseeing Ireland's transition to a low-carbon economy, including co-ordination of international negotiations, obligations on energy and climate change and provides oversight of relevant commitments in A Programme for a Partnership Government. As I indicated previously, there is a €42 billion programme involving 45,000 construction jobs. I was talking to some of the developers and operators recently and I was informed that construction on the Gort to Tuam motorway scheme and the New Ross bypass are under way. I think the Gort to Tuam motorway is ahead of time and will make a major impact.
The new-----
It has not come before Cabinet yet but I think it will shortly.
The €42 billion plan is the one that is under review at the moment, in respect of the €5 billion to be allocated, but the expanded version of that dealing with PPPs and other sectors brings it to €42 billion between now and the mid-2020s.
Deputy Ryan will be aware of the public consultation that took place on the draft national mitigation plan, and which closed on 26 April with 124 submissions received. A number of important issues were raised regarding the adequacy of the current policy responses and the clarity of national sector plans in meeting Ireland's national and European targets. The Departments are working with the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment to review the submissions with a view to strengthening the draft plan ahead of its presentation to Government next month. The Minister, Deputy Naughten, is establishing the advisory group - and Deputies are aware of this - to guide the activities of the national dialogue during its initial two-year phase. That membership will be drawn from public, private and NGO bodies. The first meeting of the advisory group is to take place in June this year. The group will be supported by a secretariat within the Environmental Protection Agency, which will also manage the administration of the dialogue. Regional gatherings will take place, to begin in the autumn of 2017, and it is also proposed that the dialogue will include the national climate change action and awareness programme in schools and communities. This includes the Green-Schools scheme, expert lectures, and climate expos and events around the climate implications of spatial choices. The advisory group meets in June and there will be an opportunity to set out a comprehensive and worthwhile strategy and to take into account the points made by Deputy Ryan.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 9, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on Brexit met three times in 2017, namely, on 26 January, 8 March and 26 April. It has met a total of eight times since its first meeting in September 2016. In addition, Michel Barnier, the EU negotiator, attended a meeting with a number of members of the committee on 11 May. On 2 May, the Government published a comprehensive document on Ireland and the negotiations on the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. This document sets out the approach of the Government to the forthcoming negotiations, following the successful campaign to have key Irish issues recognised in the EU negotiating position. Following on from this publication, work is under way to prepare a further paper on economic implications of the Brexit challenge. This will draw on the work to date across Departments, which will be developed to mitigate emerging sectoral challenges. The paper will build on ongoing cross-Government research, analysis and consultations and will reflect the core economic themes of the speech I gave to the Institute of International and European Affairs on 15 February. It will include issues such as sustainable fiscal policies to ensure capacity to absorb and respond to economic shocks, not simply from Brexit. There will be plans for policies to make Irish enterprise more diverse and resilient, to diversify trade and investment patterns and to strengthen competitiveness. It will prioritise policy measures and dedicate resources to protect jobs and businesses in the sectors and regions most affected by Brexit. It will realise economic opportunities arising from Brexit and will help businesses adjust to any new logistical or trade barriers arising. The paper will make a strong case at EU level that Ireland will require support that recognises where Brexit represents a serious disturbance to the Irish economy.
Deputies Burton, Nolan and Martin have raised a number of issues. The priorities, as outlined by Mr. Barnier during his visit to Ireland, follow what we had set out ourselves. I am glad that people recognised that. I thank all concerned for acknowledging that these issues formed part of the European Parliament's documents and the European Council decision. As pointed out by Deputy Martin, these have been approved by the General Affairs Council and will form the basis for the negotiations. The first three issues are the principles and modalities for whatever the liabilities are in respect of the UK, the Border issue, and the question of citizens' rights and reciprocal rights. No one underestimates the scale of what might happen. The impact of Brexit on the Irish economy will be significant, particularly if it is not handled in a proper, orderly and responsible way. We share the view, as does everybody else, regarding the need to maintain the closest possible trading relationship between the UK and the EU, but it will be difficult to retain it the same as it is now because if the UK sheds the Single Market, the status in respect of trade will be changed. Let us be clear about it, Ireland's economic interests lie in a strong and well-functioning European Union with continued and unfettered access to the Single Market. It is where our people have continually said they want to be, as voted for in a referendum in the past. This issue is of immense importance to all our small and medium enterprises and companies that export. There will be a great deal of trading on this issue. Nobody is clear on where the road ahead will lead. If there was to be an end to the divorce proceedings in two years and no deal, what would be the outcome of that? The British Government might say that no deal is better than a bad deal, but no deal would be catastrophic in many respects for Ireland. I hope that the conclusions to the negotiations in respect of the first three priorities will bear fruit in order that we can get on to these details. We are developing an economic paper, to which Deputy Martin referred. A number of issues have already been brought to light. We are working to improve the business environment and are examining new trade and investment strategies, with an intensified programme of trade missions. Enterprise Ireland is working with firms to help support product and service innovation; additional staff have been recruited; a €150 million loan was provided in budget 2017 for low-cost loans to farmers; and the national planning framework 2040 will be delivered this year, complemented by a ten-year national capital plan. I agree that we need to be Brexit ready. This means we must build the roadway to the north west to Derry. While there are some legal complications in that regard, we need to get on with our end of it.
It will be important that we make a case to Europe for assistance in that regard. The reason, in part, the Ministers for Finance and Public Expenditure and Reform are in Brussels today is to discuss a range of possibilities under the European Investment Fund. If we can get the Northern Ireland Executive functioning, the North-South Ministerial Council and cross-Border agencies and organisations can begin to work in that regard. All the scenarios are being examined. On the issue raised by Deputy Nolan, we have said that we do not want a return to the type of Border that existed in the past. Taking the scenario that there will be no tariffs on any goods travelling between the Republic and Northern Ireland or between the Republic and Great Britain or  In terms of what we, as a people, have acquired and what the British, as a people, have acquired since 1922 in the common travel area, we are confident we can retain all of that in a bilateral sense between ourselves and Great Britain. As Deputy Martin has often pointed out, when people voted for the Good Friday Agreement, they voted on the expectation of continuing to have European citizenship. All the people in Northern Ireland entitled to Irish citizenship are also entitled to European citizenship. A great deal of activity will take place on these issues. When I discussed this with European leaders, it was agreed that whatever we would do would be in compliance with European legislation and the European legal system because that is where we are staying. While there may be differences in comment from some members of the British Government, we have called for a recognition of our priorities and the particular and unique circumstances that apply in Ireland, but the outcome will have to be in compliance with European legislation and we will see that that happens.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 10 to 14, inclusive, together. I have appointed a new National Economic and Social Council, NESC. The new council will meet on 24 May and I expect that it will discuss its work programme and working methods at that meeting. It is a matter for the council to agree its own working arrangements. The council's remit is to analyse and report on strategic issues for Ireland’s economic, social, environmental and sustainable development. I am keen that the council considers longer-term issues such as housing, broadband, climate change, pensions and long-term funding models in education and health. The NESC, with its track record of engagement and consistent and high quality work on contentious issues, has an important role to play. As the Deputies will be aware, the NESC secretariat continues its work on issues relevant to the programme for Government, including jobless households, social dimensions of the crisis, consumer prices, labour market activation and the funding of higher education. The new council has a reduced membership of three members each from the nominating sectors, seven independents and six public servants. This is in line with the views of the outgoing members around the need for smaller, more focused plenary sessions and a strong representation from the Government side. I will circulate membership of the council for the benefit of Members which includes people from the business and employer sector, the ICTU, the farming and agriculture sector, the community and voluntary sector, the environmental sector, public servants and independent experts.
I had better make a comment but I will keep it short. Deputy Burton mentioned shadow borders. I understand the Commissioner, at the meeting last week, was talking about hypothetical situations. There was agreement at the meeting that the political outcomes would be impossible to quantify until the negotiations got started.The political imperative is that there should be no return to what was there. In that context, and as I discussed with Deputy Nolan on the earlier group of questions, we need to examine issues such as dealing with two different jurisdictions even if there are no tariffs. As already stated, the Commissioner was referring to hypothetical situations. I agree with Deputy Eamon Ryan that the NESC should be more flexible and adaptable. The approach should suggest that. That is the message we will give to the group, although it is within its remit to determine its own working arrangements. In view of the current situation, I agree that it should be more flexible and adaptable. Deputy Nolan's question is somewhat premature, particularly in view of the fact that the meeting will take place tomorrow. All of the groups are represented with the exception of farming and agriculture. Nominees to represent the latter are yet to be confirmed. It is up to those groups to make the nominations. As the Deputy will appreciate, there are some very good people involved in this process. They are going to consider the question of housing, broadband, climate change, long-term funding models in education and health, pensions and any other issues that need to be dealt with. The council will look at the issues of jobless households, the social dimensions of the crisis, consumer prices, labour market activation and the funding of higher education. Deputy Micheál Martin made some interesting observations. Nobody foresaw Brexit six years ago. It was not even on the horizon. Until 11 o'clock on the night before the referendum, those in favour of a leave vote believed it was never going to happen. That it did was an indictment of the failure to have proper political involvement in the context of explaining to people what Brexit was about. There were so many different-----
I am aware of that. The Deputy said that nobody foresaw the economic crisis. One could not have foreseen Brexit. When Fine Gael was in opposition during the years 2002 to 2007, Deputy Bruton repeatedly spoke about the housing bubble and stated that it was going to burst. What was he told? That things would get boomier and boomier.
A person sat in this chair and said that we did not need any more tax receipts from housing. Deputy Michéal Martin knows that the whole thing stagnated for nine months as a result of that. We now have to deal with the repercussions.
I understand that. There is a massive effort to provide supply of houses. I hope that, at its meeting tomorrow, the NESC shows an adaptive approach and deals with these issues.
I agree with Deputy Martin that the system we have had here for many years is not up to speed in the context of major new drugs that are approved by the FDA and similar authorities. Furthermore, being a small country, we do not have the financial reach to be able to provide for all new drugs that come on stream very quickly. The case made by the Deputy about melanoma is one of many such cases. I received a letter from a major pharmaceutical company recently about a number of drugs that are produced by the company that are not used in Ireland but which are exported around the world. The recent situation in respect of Orkambi is instructive here. Orkambi is exceptionally expensive, for very good reasons. In that context, we had international collaboration looking at the whole question of the priorities attached to drugs, how they should be funded and the relevant costs that should apply. Rather than proceeding alone, as one country, this is the way to go in the future. In collaboration with a number of other countries, significant reductions were brought about in the cost of that particular drug, together with an analysis of the improvement in the quality of life that the drug would actually provide for cystic fibrosis sufferers.  The process in respect of melanoma is under way in the HSE and the relevant agencies. The point Deputy Martin makes is that we are not in a position to provide ultra-modern drugs that come on the scene which clearly bring about serious improvements in the lives of patients suffering from various ailments. I was struck by the fact that no sooner was the decision made, money provided and an agreement reached for Orkambi, another 35 to 40 new drugs were being named as coming on stream for different ailments, many of which were also very expensive. We need to look nationally at the scale of what we provide for drug purchase in respect of a range of ailments, and internationally at whether we can collaborate with other countries on the purchase of modern drugs for specialised ailments, including various forms of cancer. Perhaps that is the way to go. I am quite sure there is a measure of agreement across the House on these matters. As the Deputy is aware, we do not have an endless pit of money. I think we can improve the way we deal with the provision of drugs, thereby leaving aside the priority attached to the drugs for which we can actually provide money.
The advances made over the years in medicine generally and in particular ailments have been astounding. The pipeline of new drugs coming on stream has simply exploded because of the research, the innovation and the work that is going into precise and specific elements for which drugs are now produced. The Health (Pricing and Supply of Medical Goods) Act 2013 sets out the legal and statutory process in this regard. The HSE makes the decisions here. We are awaiting a decision in the case of the melanoma drugs mentioned by the Deputy. As he has pointed out, responsibility for such decisions has been transferred from those involved in the political process to those involved in the quality-of-life process who have the clinical excellence and so on. There has been an explosion in the number of new drugs coming through the pipeline. Now that the Orkambi case has been settled, we are awaiting the provision of finance to provide between 30 and 40 new drugs to patients with particular ailments. The Minister for Health travelled to Malta earlier this month to sign the Valletta declaration, under which Ireland and seven other countries have agreed to work together on procuring, deciding on priorities and bringing about cost reductions so that more patients will be able to access new and specific drugs. I am sure that any Minister for Health would like to be able to say that as new drugs for particular chronic ailments, including melanomas, come on stream and are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, he or she will be in a position to provide for those drugs. Even though cost reductions have been secured in the case of Orkambi for a very good cause - cystic fibrosis patients - I understand it is the most expensive drug in this country's history. The Minister and the Department are aware of this issue. I think that by bringing about international collaboration between the countries that have signed up to the Valletta declaration on joint procurement, we will bring about an improvement in this situation.
The assessment for the two melanoma drugs mentioned by the Deputy is under way with the HSE.The Minister can give the Deputy more precise details of the work involved in or the point of that assessment.
Because of the importance of family and care services for children, the Government set up a ministry with responsibility for children, the Department of Children and Youth Affairs, held a referendum on children's rights and established the Child and Family Agency, Tusla, which is funded very substantially by the taxpayer every year. The Minister for Children and Youth Affairs has pointed out that there is quite a number of vulnerable children in different locations around the country who are not being left unattended and that the recruitment of the social workers required to provide individual attention is still under way. The Deputy mentioned the issue of domestic violence. Clearly, it impacts on families such as the ones he mentioned. I do not have the details of the cases he outlined but obviously they were very serious for the two people to whom he referred. Perhaps he might talk directly to the Minister for Children and Youth Affairs who would advise him of the situation so far as Tusla is concerned. Obviously, it is a new agency. There are more and more pieces of information coming to light on challenges for various families and children throughout the country and social workers are under pressure to deal with all the cases with which they have to deal. Arising from the incidence of domestic violence cases, quite a number of initiatives have been taken to enable such incidents to be dealt with and, where possible, prevented but where they do happen the children involved should be catered for properly. On the two individual cases mentioned by the Deputy, of which I do not have the details, I suggest he talk directly to the Minister for Children and Youth Affairs.
That was the reason for setting up Tusla in the first place and having a senior Minister responsible for children and a Department of Children and Youth Affairs. The Joint Committee on Children and Youth Affairs met representatives of HIQA this morning to discuss inspections of foster care and foster care cases. There was €37 million allocated for Tusla for 2017 and 400 new staff are being recruited.
I assume many of those recruited will be social workers allocated to cases involving people who are vulnerable or challenged. It is not perfect by any means and there are serious improvements to be made. I will have the Minister follow up the three particular cases mentioned by the Deputy.
It is important to say to Deputy Howlin, who made several public pay agreements, that what is at stake here is an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement because there were particular benefits gained on both sides in that agreement, and the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform will engage on an extension of that with his officials and the trade unions starting next Monday. The resolution of the dispute last year in respect of the Garda included a commitment to the introduction of legislative change to give the Garda associations the right of access to the Workplace Relations Commission and the Labour Court. A commitment was given that the legislation would be put in place before the end of this year and that commitment stands and will be followed through.  On 20 December last the Government approved the preparation of the heads of a Bill to provide the associations with access to the WRC and to the Labour Court. In addition to the technical legislative change required to provide access, the Government decision noted that some very significant issues will fall to be considered, including the status of the Garda associations established under An Garda Síochána Acts and the related question of the constraints upon members of taking industrial action. Do we want a situation where members of the Garda Síochána go on strike? Providing access to the WRC and the Labour Court does not of itself imply the removal of either the prohibition on members of the Garda Síochána joining trade unions or the constraints on industrial action. To assist in the consideration of these and some ancillary issues a working group chaired by Mr. John Murphy, the recently retired Secretary General of the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, has been established. The working group is considering some of the technical and practical issues that will arise and it is drawing on the experience and expertise of the relevant Departments and bodies of the group. The working group has identified several key issues that will require consideration. These include whether the associations should become full trade unions, the question of constraints on industrial action, the range of matters on which access is to be provided to the WRC and the Labour Court, what internal processes are to be put in place and be exhausted prior to issues being brought to the WRC - and that is part now of the structural work the commission announced yesterday and which it will also consider in terms of the workings of An Garda Síochána - how industrial relations should operate within the Garda Síochána and when access to the WRC and the Labour Court has been provided. The Garda associations have met with the working group so that their views are heard at an early stage in the process. The implementation of the Labour Court recommendations is ongoing and substantial progress is being made in addressing those. Day to day management of the Defence Forces is the responsibility under statutory instrument of the Minister of State at my Department, Deputy Kehoe. He is considering a range of issues in respect of the Defence Forces, their personnel, their families and facilities.
The working group comprises representatives of the Departments of Justice and Equality, of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, the Taoiseach-----
-----the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform, the Garda management and the WRC. The working group is to report on these substantive issues by 31 May this year. I assume that report will be brought here for discussion.
No because the working group has its terms of reference.The report will be brought to the House for discussion and the Deputy will have plenty of opportunities to make his case at that point. The Government will have to consider it, as is the case with any other report. In respect of the Defence Forces, as the Deputy knows they are the backup to the civil power. As I said, there are substantial issues that must be addressed in respect of the legislation being prepared arising from a decision to give the Garda access to the WRC and Labour Court. The Minister of State at the Department of Defence is engaging with the Defence Forces representative. Given the constraints upon us, I want us to continue to provide the Defence Forces and their personnel with the very best facilities in order that they can do their job. I am always open to discussion, but I am not giving any commitment. It is important that we recognise the value of the contribution given by our Defence Forces, which have never let the State down.
The cost of increasing pensions for those currently not eligible prior to 1994 would be about €300 million. If that money was allocated, one would probably not have any money to increase pensions as a consequence. The Minister for Social Production has examined the way in which contributory pensions are calculated. The Oireachtas Joint Committee on Social Protection will be in receipt of a suite of options which will be presented for its consideration in the next couple of months. Deputy Collins read out two articles from the Constitution as it was written. There have been increased opportunities for women in the home who want to participate in the labour force due to increased employment levels and many other methods. The point the Deputy has raised is an issue. There is a cost attached to it and I suggest that he wait until all of the options presented to the Joint Committee on Social Production in the coming months for discussion by Deputies have been considered.
It is all about choices because one does not have the resources to do everything that might be desirable. While this is a desirable option, it would cost €300 million to go back to 1970. If that is done, there will be no capacity to increase pensions, lone-parent allowances or other measures. There is no endless pit of money, which is why all of the actuarial assessments and different options are being prepared for consideration and will be brought before the committee in a couple of months. It is a choice. If we do what the Deputy suggests, while desirable, it will implicitly suggest we will not have any money to increase pensions or a range of other allowances that would be catered to in the normal course. As such, it is important to lay out the facts before priorities are assessed and decisions made.
Fraud is the wrongful acquisition of money from those who have to pay for it.
The Deputy understands that. The Department of Social Protection conducted nearly 950,000 entitlement reviews and investigations across all of its schemes last year. The reviews yielded a sum of €506 million in control savings for the year. Reviews and investigations of entitlements are conducted by social welfare inspectors assigned to the-----
A review can involve a desk-based assessment of entitlements, a direct inquiry-----
I do not have the answer to the Dáil question Deputy Martin raised specifically yesterday.
I have got the savings recorded by social welfare, which come to €506 million-----
-----from jobseeker's allowance, pensions and household benefits.
The campaign is to deal with the question of welfare fraud.
This is the campaign to address the fraudulent receipt of moneys from the taxpayer through social welfare schemes of one sort or another.
The Government has shown great international leadership in restoring the country's sovereignty, rescuing our economy from the depths of despair in which it was and sending out that signal internationally. The Deputy is engaged in a campaign throughout the country with flags for Palestine all over the place, and he is entitled to do so if he wishes, but the point is we have had a very clear view in this country for very many years that we would support a two-state solution in respect of Palestine and Israel. We also said we would be happy to recognise the state of Israel provided it could be shown clearly it was in the interests of achieving a two-state solution.
Unfortunately, the Government here is not responsible for what happens in Gaza or the West Bank. We have shown an exceptional interest in this. We have been very clear through the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and with ambassadors from Palestine and Israel on many occasions about this. That is the position.
We are quite prepared to work in the interests of the recognition of the state of Palestine provided it can be shown clearly that is in the interest of achieving a two-state solution. Unfortunately, these discussions are not at that point yet.
I thank Deputy Howlin. He can take it for granted that interest will not wane in this matter-----
-----not just because the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform represents the north inner city. I will go there in the coming weeks to see the ongoing progress on a whole range of projects. Deputy Howlin's question is valid. We made a commitment and we will see that funding is provided for a chief executive to oversee the implementation.
I do not want to put a specific date on it, but I would say certainly before the end of the summer because it is a commitment. I have made the point on many occasions that it was a case of meeting all of the communities and people who had worked so hard in an area in which seven murders had taken place and people had been neglected, left behind and forgotten about. This is an instance where the Government is actually engaging with the community leadership to ask it what it wants.
There is a plan and it is being followed. I will visit the area with the Minister, Deputy Paschal Donohoe, in the next short period to see the progress being made on a range of matters. We reconfirm the appointment of an executive officer with an office and an oversight role to ensure the plan is being implemented in full.
Kerry is bursting at the seams with all of the people from all over the world who want to go there. All of the reports I have received from Killarney, Dingle, Kenmare, Killorglin, Cahersiveen and all of the places on the Wild Atlantic Way to north Kerry indicate that people are coming from all over the world. I do not believe the Deputy when he says it will take three years to roll out the scheme to County Kerry. Any time I go there I see more than enough action on the roads and other activities. It is up there with the best of them. Did I not open a football centre of excellence in Tralee?
Because the Deputy asked me specifically I will have a conversation with the two young Ministers, Minister Simon and Minister Leo, to get them working together in the interests of County Kerry.
The Minister explained the position to Deputy Brendan Howlin yesterday, but he will answer again for the Deputy, if he so wishes. 
I take Deputy Scanlon's point in that I agree there is pressure in respect of respite beds and respite accommodation. I am not aware of the details of what he raised in respect of the new facility that was provided a number of years ago or what Deputy Michael Moynihan said about no emergency funding being available now, but I can confirm for the Deputies that the Minister of State, Deputy Finian McGrath, has certainly raised this matter generally at Cabinet meetings on a number of occasions, particularly in respect of the stress on respite facilities. He is working on it. Perhaps I will have him contact both Deputies about the particular issues they raised.
Bless the Deputy for her innovative assessment of the programme for Government in terms of flexibility for hospitality and tourism. I suggest that the local authority prepare a plan or strategy for the barbican gate, if that is not done already, and that it consult both Fáilte Ireland and Tourism Ireland. These gates are important, and they are important to tourists who have an interest in buildings and gates like the barbican gate. It is not for me to give a commitment here saying finance will be granted from a particular departmental Vote. I suggest the Deputy start with the local authority, talk to the tourism interests and also the businesses in Drogheda-----
-----and prepare a plan indicating how the gate might be reopened and used for hospitality purposes.
I will have to come back to the Deputy with detail of any work being prepared on that Bill.
I will have the Deputy's question referred to the Minister for Health. This is a matter of management and monitoring. When approval is given for a home care package, it should be followed through. Clearly, it should not be approved in the first place if it cannot be delivered. There is little point in having people under the assumption that they will get a service through a home care package if there are no resources there to meet it. The number of home care packages has improved significantly. I will have the Minister respond through management of the HSE as to what the situation is in the area the Deputy is talking about.
The Minister for Education and Skills will answer that question.
This is a matter that the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality has referred to on many occasions. The Government has provided substantial moneys for new vehicles, motorbikes, CCTV and opportunities to improve the security for rural Ireland, by which I mean small-town Ireland as well as "rural rural Ireland". Clearly, the advantages of the text alert and communities being vigilant about these things are important. The Government seriously funded Operation Thor, which took out of operation many of the gangs that were specialist operators at breaking into houses, travelling quite a distance to do so. I am quite sure that gardaí in the Roscommon area are aware of reported break-ins or burglaries and are on to the perpetrators of these crimes. I hope the perpetrators are brought before the courts in a short time. It is a case of gardaí working with communities and availing of the facilities that are there. I find throughout vast parts of the country that the text alert through community leadership is very strong. There are occasions where suspicious movements or activities are reported and dealt with very early. It is a case of working through communities, with communities and the gardaí to best effect for protection and safety of our people.
I do not control the draw that takes place for Private Members' Bills. One of the changes brought about in this particular Dáil was the right of backbench or Opposition Deputies to produce Private Members' Bills. The Ceann Comhairle wrote to me last week to have a meeting next week about this matter with the chairs of the committees, because there are 140 Bills backed up currently. On the number that have been taken by Government, whereas the intent of the Private Members' Bill might be very good, it does not make it into a Bill that is fit for purpose. The central idea might be correct, but Government and Departments have had to do extensive work in working with and amending those Private Members' Bills to make them suitable to go through the pre-legislative scrutiny and eventually to be passed here. I do not know why a second Bill is down for discussion. I assume the right was there to withdraw this, if I am correct. The Ceann Comhairle might deal with that.
Would it be possible for amendments to be put to the other Bill at Committee Stage and for it to be dealt with that way?
FEMPI has been reviewed every year since it was introduced. I believe the Minister has referred to a date for this. I will confirm to Deputy Fleming what is the Minister's intention. His view of having an extension to the Lansdowne Road agreement includes all of the unions, starting with the official engagement and then taking it to an intensive level pretty soon. I will come back to the Deputy on the issue.
It is for the Minister, Deputy Creed, to answer that.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 3, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on health last met on 27 April and is scheduled to meet again on 30 May.
The role of the Cabinet committee is not to run services for the Department of Health or the HSE but to provide a basis for political oversight in the development and delivery of key health service reforms in line with the commitments in A Programme for a Partnership Government and to drive improvements in selected areas. It maintains oversight of the most significant areas of the health service. In the case of the winter initiative, it provided €40 million in additional funding for preparation for issues that would arise. A significant focus was placed on reducing the numbers of delayed discharges in acute hospitals through the funding and provision of additional home care packages, additional home help hours and additional transitional care beds. The number of delayed discharges was reduced from 638 in September 2016 to a low of 434 at the end of December 2016. It was maintained below 500 from mid-December through to the end of February. Obviously, there were staffing challenges. A significant issue last winter was the day-to-day maintenance of staffing levels and the ability to flex staffing levels to meet open surge capacity, in other words, at times when there was a spike in the numbers of patients coming through emergency departments. The figures released by the National Treatment Purchase Fund on Friday, 7 April confirmed that there were 84,838 patients on inpatient or day case procedure waiting lists; 18,000 waiting for a routine GI endoscopy procedure; and 466,000 waiting for a first outpatient appointment. In 2017 there are a range of initiatives designed to deal with the issue in a way that will ensure an improvement. These are the reports that come before the Cabinet committee to maintain political oversight of the key areas of responsibility.
The Cabinet committee does not deal with the detail of the running of day-to-day services, but it does have political oversight of what is happening. The net expenditure of the HSE to the end of February was €2.226 billion, which was under profile. The expenditure of acute hospitals was about €28 million above profile. We are providing more money than ever before for the health service, at €14.5 billion. I have outlined that the winter initiative was to deal with the increased numbers of cases coming through and the challenges in staffing and so on. I assume that in the case of Deputy Mick Barry's friend, because the condition of his hip is deteriorating, his doctor should be in contact with management in the hospital to say it has now deteriorated to a point where it needs urgent attention. As the Deputy knows, these things take a while to develop. If his friend's condition has worsened, the clinician might make a decision that it needs attention more urgently than thought.The Minister for Health has set out a whole range of issues with which he is dealing to improve the health situation and he will keep at that for the future.
I am aware of the commitment made to provide a mobile catheterisation laboratory but that is not something that we can just drive into position. There are elements that need to be put in place before it can happen but there is no resiling from the commitment. I am aware of the situation regarding the numbers in Waterford. I cannot give the Deputy a date for when it will happen but the commitment will be honoured.
I will advise Deputy Howlin as to the progress made since January for the provision of the catheterisation laboratory which I hope will help to relieve the backlog of cardiac cases in Waterford.
The Deputy makes a valid point about trolley numbers and the Minister for Health has made this a particular priority. Emergency department overcrowding and long patient waiting lists are of critical concern here. Last September the HSE's winter initiative was announced which provided €40 million of additional funding to deal with these matters. A range of practical measures to address emergency department overcrowding were implemented, including 90 newly-opened additional hospital beds and a reduction in delayed discharges nationally from 668 in September to 434 in December. Delayed discharges were maintained below 500 to the end of February. Aids and appliances were given to over 4,450 patients, 1,000 additional home care packages were provided and 615 additional transitional care bed approvals were also made. All these measures enabled patients to be discharged from hospital sooner. A key element of the winter initiative was for the HSE to work with hospitals to develop improvement actions and winter plans at each location. Learning from the most recent winter initiative will be important for the future. As part of the ongoing measures to relieve pressure in emergency departments, several major capital projects are under way or in the process of completion which will increase overall capacity in the hospital system. These include a new ward block and an adult mental health unit at University Hospital Galway, a new emergency department in Limerick and an extension at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Drogheda. The Department has also commenced a bed capacity review in line with the commitment in the programme for Government. That review will feed into the mid-term review of the capital programme which is under way at present. The Minister and the Department will continue to work intensively with the HSE to address the challenges and monitor the performance in the emergency departments. In Deputy Howlin's constituency in Wexford, for example, the design and construction of the new emergency department has eliminated a great deal of the pressure and stress in what was previously a very constrained and confined emergency department. A number of modular units will be put in place as extensions to existing emergency departments in some hospitals to relieve pressure. Members are aware that the population of this country is ageing. We must think in terms of 2020, 2030 and even 2040. By 2040 Ireland may have 1 million additional people and will need 0.5 million extra houses. We will also have to deal with our ageing population in the context of hospital locations, primary care centres, community homes and so forth. That is all part of a ten year capital programme in which everyone will have to be involved because Ireland's current health facilities will have to be radically different in ten years' time.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 4 to 6, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on Arts, Irish and the Gaeltacht last met on Monday, 27 February. The next meeting will take place on Thursday, 25 May.
Tá a fhios ag an Teachta go maith go bhfuil an coiste seo ag breathnú ar na nithe seo. Maidir leis an mbuiséad, beidh na díospóireachtaí ar siúl go luath i dtreo is go mbeidh buiséad curtha os comhair na Dála i mí Dheireadh Fómhair.Tá a fhios ag an Teachta freisin gur foilsíodh plean do scoileanna Gaeltachta le déanaí don chéad uair ó bunaíodh an Stát. Cuireadh fáilte mhór roimh an bplean sin. Tá na scoileanna Gaeltachta ag breathnú ar céard gur chóir dóibh a dhéanamh chun buntáistí an phlean a bhaint amach agus ar conas is féidir leo gabháil leis na coinníollacha faoin bplean. Sílim gur mhaith an rud é sin. I mí Eanáir na bliana 2014, foilsíodh trí fhógra faoi Acht na Gaeilge i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Ciarraí thiar, Cois Fharraige, agus Gaoth Dobhair, Rann na Feirste, Anagaire agus Loch an Iúir. I mí an Mheithimh 2014, foilsíodh sé fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Gaeltacht na nDéise, Ciarraí theas, An Cheathrú Rua, Ceantar na nOileán, Dún na nGall theas, agus Cloch Cheann Fhaola, Gort a' Choirce, An Fál Carrach agus Machaire Rabhartaigh. I mí Feabhra 2015, foilsíodh ceithre fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Árainn Mhór, lár-Chonamara, Múscraí, agus Dúiche Sheoigheach agus Tuar Mhic Éadaigh. I mí Mheán Fómhair 2015, foilsíodh cúig fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: tuaisceart Dhún na nGall, Oileán Thoraí, Oileáin Árann, Maigh Eo thuaidh, agus Ráth Chairn agus Baile Ghib. I mí Iúil na bliana 2016, foilsíodh cheithre fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Oileán Chléire, Maigh Eo thiar, na Rosa agus Maigh Cuilinn. I mí na Samhna na bliana 2016, foilsíodh fógra i leith Gaeltacht an Láir i gContae Dhún na nGall. Tá sé i gceist go gcuirfear tús le hullmhúcháin na bpleananna teanga idir seo agus deireadh na bliana sa trí limistéir Ghaeltachta eile atá fágtha ag an bpointe seo. Tá súil agam go bhfeicfidh an Teachta go bhfuil próiseas cuimsitheach i gceist anseo. Aithníodh sa Straitéis 20 Bliain don Ghaeilge go mbeadh cur chuige céimneach i gceist chun bearta éagsúla na straitéise a chur i gcrích. Foilsíodh na critéir phleanála teanga i mí Mheán Fómhair na bliana 2013 agus foilsíodh na treoirlínte pleanála teanga i mí Eanáir na bliana 2014. Is léir mar sin go raibh obair leanúnach ar siúl ag an Roinn Ealaíon, Oidhreachta, Gnóthaí Réigiúnacha, Tuaithe agus Gaeltachta chun raon leathan gníomhachtaí faoin straitéis a chur i bhfeidhm. Más rud é go bhfuil an tréimhse de dhá bhliain nó mar sin a ceadaíodh i leith gach aon cheann de na limistéir úd chun plean a ullmhú caite nó ag teacht chun deiridh, ag brath ar an gcás tá pleananna teanga i leith na limistéir Cois Fharraige, Gaoth Dobhair agus mar sin-----
Tá Dún na nGall luaite anseo freisin.
A Leas-Cheann Comhairle, bhí tú ag caint liom faoi Anagaire, Rann na Feirste, Gaoth Dobhair, Cloch Cheann Fhaola, Gort a' Choirce, An Fál Carrach agus Machaire Rabhartaigh.
Is maith an rud é go gcloiseann siad thuas i nDún na nGall go bhfuil suim ag an Leas-Cheann Comhairle san háiteanna seo ag an bpointe seo.
Níl.
Tá Gaeilge mhaith ag an Teachta Howlin.
Ba chóir go mbeadh seans ag an Choimisinéir Teanga teacht os comhair Choiste na Gaeilge, na Gaeltachta agus na nOileán agus a thuairimí a nochtadh faoi Acht na dTeangacha Oifigiúla. Sílim gur mhaith an tuairim atá ag an Teachta Martin ansin. As part of the 2017 budget the Department of Arts, Heritage, Regional, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs retains the majority of the €18 million current funding for 2017. That is now part of the base line for the arts division of the Department meaning that it will be available for future years also. This included a €5 million increase for the Arts Council; an 8% increase in its annual budget; a boost in funding for all the national cultural institutions; €2 million to allow for the opening of the newly restored wings of the National Gallery of Ireland, which is due to open in the next few weeks; the opening of Killarney House on foot of significant capital investment by the State - €5 million or €6 million was invested in it; an increase of €2 million for the Irish Film Board; €1 million for Culture Ireland; and funding of €5 million for the implementation of the Creative Ireland programme, which was mentioned. Aosdána is a unique initiative established by the Arts Council in 1981 to honour creative artists who made a significant contribution to the arts in Ireland. There are currently 250 members in Aosdána: seven new members came into its membership last week. The scheme is the responsibility of the Arts Council and not of the Department. It should be noted that under section 24(2) of the Arts Act 2003, the council is independent of the Minister in its funding decisions. Members of Aosdána can quality for a means tested payment known as the cnuas, to which Deputy Howlin referred, if they are resident in Ireland and are full-time practising artists. Following recent internal audits of Aosdána and a value for money policy review of the Arts Council, which was undertaken under the guidance of an expert steering committee chaired by Dr. John O'Hagan, the Arts Council is reviewing all aspects of the administration and procedures of Aosdána to ensure that the most appropriate governance and oversight arrangements are in place. In regard to any issues which arise from the review, these are a matter for the Arts Council and Aosdána. I do not like to see such rows-----
-----but I understand a process of engagement is planned now and I encourage both sides to engage in it thoroughly. There is plenty of experience there, as the Deputy is well aware. In respect of Creative Ireland, the amount involved was a small amount of money-----
-----but there has been a fabulous response to it. People have been very enthusiastic. I attended one of the workshops and I met people I had not seen before who are artists in various sectors. They turned up and gave of their views. I will give a brief run-down of some of the items covered by the Arts Council, if I can find it.
I will circulate it.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 10, inclusive, together. A Programme for a Partnership Government, published last May, set out an ambitious programme of work to protect our growing economy and ensure that the results of the recovery are felt by all citizens. The programme for Government annual report was published last week on 10 May and sets out the progress made on more than 300 commitments across all of Government over the past 12 months. It reflects the hard work across all Government Departments to deliver a wide range of issues over the lifetime of this Government. Prior to this, two interim progress reports on the programme were also published during the Government's first year in office. The annual report provides a comprehensive update on the progress of the commitments in its first year, which highlights very specific plans which have been put in place to address, in the short and longer term, key areas of housing, homelessness, education, rural and regional development, job creation, broadband, agriculture and climate change. The report also highlights the ambition and steps to improve services for families, children, people with disabilities and mental health problems and older people, including key reforms necessary in the health and justice sectors. Significant work has also been undertaken in advance of and following the UK's referendum on EU membership to ensure an effective whole of government approach to the Brexit negotiations that takes full account of the Government's negotiating priorities. The Government will continue to implement its programme, striking a balance between addressing urgent priorities and engaging in long-term planning so that lasting solutions are implemented to secure a strong economy and a fair society.
One would need to be like Speedy Gonzales. The Government has created 1,300 new jobs every week since June 2016.
Unemployment is down 9 percentage points to 6.2% and the number of unemployed fell by 47,300 in the past year. The 2016 action plan has delivered 93% of 555 measures. Deputy Boyd Barrett should read the programme report in respect of housing and he will see what is going on. Despite all the talk and cynicism, there is more work going on than ever before in the housing sector between local authorities, private enterprise and initiatives from the Department.
IDA Ireland client companies recorded 18,600 new jobs in 2016, which is an increase of 11,900. Enterprise Ireland companies created 19,200 jobs, an increase of 9,000. Local enterprise office client companies created 7,800 jobs. The value of goods exported totalled almost €117 billion, the highest annual total on record. There are 12,500 small and medium enterprises that have benefited from €544 million in Strategic Banking Corporation of Ireland loans. The credit guarantee scheme has sanctioned 437 loans of €70 million to date, supporting 2,500 jobs. Microfinance Ireland approved 1,249 applications, totalling €8.2 million. The list goes on for people if they want to read it. The Minister, Deputy Ross, has engaged extensively at official level with other Departments and agencies and he has been fully briefed in these engagements. He has met directly with the Minister of State, Deputy O'Donovan, and engaged in all-island sectoral dialogues in both transport and tourism held in Dundalk this year.
He attended the European Union Transport Council meeting last June, which arose immediately prior to the Brexit vote.
He met EU counterparts.
He was unable to attend the December meeting, which was the only EU Transport Council meeting since Brexit.
That was due to a road safety event scheduled for the same day. Officials attended in his place and reported back on all proceedings. Pending the formal triggering by the UK of Article 50-----
-----there was regular and ongoing engagement and contact at all levels involving the Department. This included meetings, conferences and seminars in Brussels and elsewhere.
The Minister met his Northern Irish counterpart at the North-South Ministerial Council transport sectoral meeting on 12 December 2016 in Armagh, when Brexit was on the agenda. There is regular contact with Northern Ireland counterparts at official level. Senior management in the Department, including the Secretary General, had a four-hour meeting with their UK counterparts on 19 January and the Minister, Deputy Ross, will of course attend the June meeting.
People judge Governments by the extent of legislation that is put through. The previous Government had a big majority and there were guillotines about which Deputy Martin complained every week. There was no real pre-legislative scrutiny. That has all been changed and half the agenda is determined by the Business Committee. There are 140 Private Members' Bills backed up and there are no guillotines. There is full and comprehensive pre-legislative scrutiny. Last year there was the Electoral (Amendment) Act 2016, the Health (Amendment) Act 2016, the Water Services (Amendment) Act 2016, the Proceeds of Crime Act (Amendment) 2016, the Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2016-----
-----the Commission of Investigation (Irish Bank Resolution Corporation) Act 2016, the Paternity Leave and Benefit Act 2016, the Energy Act 2016, the Finance (Certain European and Intergovernmental Obligations) Act 2016, the National Tourism Development Authority (Amendment) Act 2016, the Social Welfare Act 2016, the Appropriation Act 2016, the Planning and Development (Housing) and Residential Tenancies Act 2016, the Finance Act 2016, the Health Insurance (Amendment) Act 2016, the Statute Law Revision Act 2016, the Road Traffic Act 2016, the Courts Act 2016 and the Health (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2016. There has also been the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) Act 2017 and so on.
The Government has published quite an extensive list of Bills since coming to office on 6 May last year. It is wrong to judge any Government on the extent of legislation and it is much better to judge it on the quality.
This Dáil is very different from the previous one, as Deputy Martin is well aware, and because of the different sectors that are represented, the nature of the business has changed. A great deal of work has gone on, is going on and will go on.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 3, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on health last met on 27 April and is scheduled to meet again on 30 May.
The role of the Cabinet committee is not to run services for the Department of Health or the HSE but to provide a basis for political oversight in the development and delivery of key health service reforms in line with the commitments in A Programme for a Partnership Government and to drive improvements in selected areas. It maintains oversight of the most significant areas of the health service. In the case of the winter initiative, it provided €40 million in additional funding for preparation for issues that would arise. A significant focus was placed on reducing the numbers of delayed discharges in acute hospitals through the funding and provision of additional home care packages, additional home help hours and additional transitional care beds. The number of delayed discharges was reduced from 638 in September 2016 to a low of 434 at the end of December 2016. It was maintained below 500 from mid-December through to the end of February. Obviously, there were staffing challenges. A significant issue last winter was the day-to-day maintenance of staffing levels and the ability to flex staffing levels to meet open surge capacity, in other words, at times when there was a spike in the numbers of patients coming through emergency departments. The figures released by the National Treatment Purchase Fund on Friday, 7 April confirmed that there were 84,838 patients on inpatient or day case procedure waiting lists; 18,000 waiting for a routine GI endoscopy procedure; and 466,000 waiting for a first outpatient appointment. In 2017 there are a range of initiatives designed to deal with the issue in a way that will ensure an improvement. These are the reports that come before the Cabinet committee to maintain political oversight of the key areas of responsibility.
The Cabinet committee does not deal with the detail of the running of day-to-day services, but it does have political oversight of what is happening. The net expenditure of the HSE to the end of February was €2.226 billion, which was under profile. The expenditure of acute hospitals was about €28 million above profile. We are providing more money than ever before for the health service, at €14.5 billion. I have outlined that the winter initiative was to deal with the increased numbers of cases coming through and the challenges in staffing and so on. I assume that in the case of Deputy Mick Barry's friend, because the condition of his hip is deteriorating, his doctor should be in contact with management in the hospital to say it has now deteriorated to a point where it needs urgent attention. As the Deputy knows, these things take a while to develop. If his friend's condition has worsened, the clinician might make a decision that it needs attention more urgently than thought.The Minister for Health has set out a whole range of issues with which he is dealing to improve the health situation and he will keep at that for the future.
I am aware of the commitment made to provide a mobile catheterisation laboratory but that is not something that we can just drive into position. There are elements that need to be put in place before it can happen but there is no resiling from the commitment. I am aware of the situation regarding the numbers in Waterford. I cannot give the Deputy a date for when it will happen but the commitment will be honoured.
I will advise Deputy Howlin as to the progress made since January for the provision of the catheterisation laboratory which I hope will help to relieve the backlog of cardiac cases in Waterford.
The Deputy makes a valid point about trolley numbers and the Minister for Health has made this a particular priority. Emergency department overcrowding and long patient waiting lists are of critical concern here. Last September the HSE's winter initiative was announced which provided €40 million of additional funding to deal with these matters. A range of practical measures to address emergency department overcrowding were implemented, including 90 newly-opened additional hospital beds and a reduction in delayed discharges nationally from 668 in September to 434 in December. Delayed discharges were maintained below 500 to the end of February. Aids and appliances were given to over 4,450 patients, 1,000 additional home care packages were provided and 615 additional transitional care bed approvals were also made. All these measures enabled patients to be discharged from hospital sooner. A key element of the winter initiative was for the HSE to work with hospitals to develop improvement actions and winter plans at each location. Learning from the most recent winter initiative will be important for the future. As part of the ongoing measures to relieve pressure in emergency departments, several major capital projects are under way or in the process of completion which will increase overall capacity in the hospital system. These include a new ward block and an adult mental health unit at University Hospital Galway, a new emergency department in Limerick and an extension at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Drogheda. The Department has also commenced a bed capacity review in line with the commitment in the programme for Government. That review will feed into the mid-term review of the capital programme which is under way at present. The Minister and the Department will continue to work intensively with the HSE to address the challenges and monitor the performance in the emergency departments. In Deputy Howlin's constituency in Wexford, for example, the design and construction of the new emergency department has eliminated a great deal of the pressure and stress in what was previously a very constrained and confined emergency department. A number of modular units will be put in place as extensions to existing emergency departments in some hospitals to relieve pressure. Members are aware that the population of this country is ageing. We must think in terms of 2020, 2030 and even 2040. By 2040 Ireland may have 1 million additional people and will need 0.5 million extra houses. We will also have to deal with our ageing population in the context of hospital locations, primary care centres, community homes and so forth. That is all part of a ten year capital programme in which everyone will have to be involved because Ireland's current health facilities will have to be radically different in ten years' time.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 4 to 6, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on Arts, Irish and the Gaeltacht last met on Monday, 27 February. The next meeting will take place on Thursday, 25 May.
Tá a fhios ag an Teachta go maith go bhfuil an coiste seo ag breathnú ar na nithe seo. Maidir leis an mbuiséad, beidh na díospóireachtaí ar siúl go luath i dtreo is go mbeidh buiséad curtha os comhair na Dála i mí Dheireadh Fómhair.Tá a fhios ag an Teachta freisin gur foilsíodh plean do scoileanna Gaeltachta le déanaí don chéad uair ó bunaíodh an Stát. Cuireadh fáilte mhór roimh an bplean sin. Tá na scoileanna Gaeltachta ag breathnú ar céard gur chóir dóibh a dhéanamh chun buntáistí an phlean a bhaint amach agus ar conas is féidir leo gabháil leis na coinníollacha faoin bplean. Sílim gur mhaith an rud é sin. I mí Eanáir na bliana 2014, foilsíodh trí fhógra faoi Acht na Gaeilge i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Ciarraí thiar, Cois Fharraige, agus Gaoth Dobhair, Rann na Feirste, Anagaire agus Loch an Iúir. I mí an Mheithimh 2014, foilsíodh sé fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Gaeltacht na nDéise, Ciarraí theas, An Cheathrú Rua, Ceantar na nOileán, Dún na nGall theas, agus Cloch Cheann Fhaola, Gort a' Choirce, An Fál Carrach agus Machaire Rabhartaigh. I mí Feabhra 2015, foilsíodh ceithre fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Árainn Mhór, lár-Chonamara, Múscraí, agus Dúiche Sheoigheach agus Tuar Mhic Éadaigh. I mí Mheán Fómhair 2015, foilsíodh cúig fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: tuaisceart Dhún na nGall, Oileán Thoraí, Oileáin Árann, Maigh Eo thuaidh, agus Ráth Chairn agus Baile Ghib. I mí Iúil na bliana 2016, foilsíodh cheithre fhógra i leith na limistéar seo a leanas: Oileán Chléire, Maigh Eo thiar, na Rosa agus Maigh Cuilinn. I mí na Samhna na bliana 2016, foilsíodh fógra i leith Gaeltacht an Láir i gContae Dhún na nGall. Tá sé i gceist go gcuirfear tús le hullmhúcháin na bpleananna teanga idir seo agus deireadh na bliana sa trí limistéir Ghaeltachta eile atá fágtha ag an bpointe seo. Tá súil agam go bhfeicfidh an Teachta go bhfuil próiseas cuimsitheach i gceist anseo. Aithníodh sa Straitéis 20 Bliain don Ghaeilge go mbeadh cur chuige céimneach i gceist chun bearta éagsúla na straitéise a chur i gcrích. Foilsíodh na critéir phleanála teanga i mí Mheán Fómhair na bliana 2013 agus foilsíodh na treoirlínte pleanála teanga i mí Eanáir na bliana 2014. Is léir mar sin go raibh obair leanúnach ar siúl ag an Roinn Ealaíon, Oidhreachta, Gnóthaí Réigiúnacha, Tuaithe agus Gaeltachta chun raon leathan gníomhachtaí faoin straitéis a chur i bhfeidhm. Más rud é go bhfuil an tréimhse de dhá bhliain nó mar sin a ceadaíodh i leith gach aon cheann de na limistéir úd chun plean a ullmhú caite nó ag teacht chun deiridh, ag brath ar an gcás tá pleananna teanga i leith na limistéir Cois Fharraige, Gaoth Dobhair agus mar sin-----
Tá Dún na nGall luaite anseo freisin.
A Leas-Cheann Comhairle, bhí tú ag caint liom faoi Anagaire, Rann na Feirste, Gaoth Dobhair, Cloch Cheann Fhaola, Gort a' Choirce, An Fál Carrach agus Machaire Rabhartaigh.
Is maith an rud é go gcloiseann siad thuas i nDún na nGall go bhfuil suim ag an Leas-Cheann Comhairle san háiteanna seo ag an bpointe seo.
Níl.
Tá Gaeilge mhaith ag an Teachta Howlin.
Ba chóir go mbeadh seans ag an Choimisinéir Teanga teacht os comhair Choiste na Gaeilge, na Gaeltachta agus na nOileán agus a thuairimí a nochtadh faoi Acht na dTeangacha Oifigiúla. Sílim gur mhaith an tuairim atá ag an Teachta Martin ansin. As part of the 2017 budget the Department of Arts, Heritage, Regional, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs retains the majority of the €18 million current funding for 2017. That is now part of the base line for the arts division of the Department meaning that it will be available for future years also. This included a €5 million increase for the Arts Council; an 8% increase in its annual budget; a boost in funding for all the national cultural institutions; €2 million to allow for the opening of the newly restored wings of the National Gallery of Ireland, which is due to open in the next few weeks; the opening of Killarney House on foot of significant capital investment by the State - €5 million or €6 million was invested in it; an increase of €2 million for the Irish Film Board; €1 million for Culture Ireland; and funding of €5 million for the implementation of the Creative Ireland programme, which was mentioned. Aosdána is a unique initiative established by the Arts Council in 1981 to honour creative artists who made a significant contribution to the arts in Ireland. There are currently 250 members in Aosdána: seven new members came into its membership last week. The scheme is the responsibility of the Arts Council and not of the Department. It should be noted that under section 24(2) of the Arts Act 2003, the council is independent of the Minister in its funding decisions. Members of Aosdána can quality for a means tested payment known as the cnuas, to which Deputy Howlin referred, if they are resident in Ireland and are full-time practising artists. Following recent internal audits of Aosdána and a value for money policy review of the Arts Council, which was undertaken under the guidance of an expert steering committee chaired by Dr. John O'Hagan, the Arts Council is reviewing all aspects of the administration and procedures of Aosdána to ensure that the most appropriate governance and oversight arrangements are in place. In regard to any issues which arise from the review, these are a matter for the Arts Council and Aosdána. I do not like to see such rows-----
-----but I understand a process of engagement is planned now and I encourage both sides to engage in it thoroughly. There is plenty of experience there, as the Deputy is well aware. In respect of Creative Ireland, the amount involved was a small amount of money-----
-----but there has been a fabulous response to it. People have been very enthusiastic. I attended one of the workshops and I met people I had not seen before who are artists in various sectors. They turned up and gave of their views. I will give a brief run-down of some of the items covered by the Arts Council, if I can find it.
I will circulate it.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 to 10, inclusive, together. A Programme for a Partnership Government, published last May, set out an ambitious programme of work to protect our growing economy and ensure that the results of the recovery are felt by all citizens. The programme for Government annual report was published last week on 10 May and sets out the progress made on more than 300 commitments across all of Government over the past 12 months. It reflects the hard work across all Government Departments to deliver a wide range of issues over the lifetime of this Government. Prior to this, two interim progress reports on the programme were also published during the Government's first year in office. The annual report provides a comprehensive update on the progress of the commitments in its first year, which highlights very specific plans which have been put in place to address, in the short and longer term, key areas of housing, homelessness, education, rural and regional development, job creation, broadband, agriculture and climate change. The report also highlights the ambition and steps to improve services for families, children, people with disabilities and mental health problems and older people, including key reforms necessary in the health and justice sectors. Significant work has also been undertaken in advance of and following the UK's referendum on EU membership to ensure an effective whole of government approach to the Brexit negotiations that takes full account of the Government's negotiating priorities. The Government will continue to implement its programme, striking a balance between addressing urgent priorities and engaging in long-term planning so that lasting solutions are implemented to secure a strong economy and a fair society.
One would need to be like Speedy Gonzales. The Government has created 1,300 new jobs every week since June 2016.
Unemployment is down 9 percentage points to 6.2% and the number of unemployed fell by 47,300 in the past year. The 2016 action plan has delivered 93% of 555 measures. Deputy Boyd Barrett should read the programme report in respect of housing and he will see what is going on. Despite all the talk and cynicism, there is more work going on than ever before in the housing sector between local authorities, private enterprise and initiatives from the Department.
IDA Ireland client companies recorded 18,600 new jobs in 2016, which is an increase of 11,900. Enterprise Ireland companies created 19,200 jobs, an increase of 9,000. Local enterprise office client companies created 7,800 jobs. The value of goods exported totalled almost €117 billion, the highest annual total on record. There are 12,500 small and medium enterprises that have benefited from €544 million in Strategic Banking Corporation of Ireland loans. The credit guarantee scheme has sanctioned 437 loans of €70 million to date, supporting 2,500 jobs. Microfinance Ireland approved 1,249 applications, totalling €8.2 million. The list goes on for people if they want to read it. The Minister, Deputy Ross, has engaged extensively at official level with other Departments and agencies and he has been fully briefed in these engagements. He has met directly with the Minister of State, Deputy O'Donovan, and engaged in all-island sectoral dialogues in both transport and tourism held in Dundalk this year.
He attended the European Union Transport Council meeting last June, which arose immediately prior to the Brexit vote.
He met EU counterparts.
He was unable to attend the December meeting, which was the only EU Transport Council meeting since Brexit.
That was due to a road safety event scheduled for the same day. Officials attended in his place and reported back on all proceedings. Pending the formal triggering by the UK of Article 50-----
-----there was regular and ongoing engagement and contact at all levels involving the Department. This included meetings, conferences and seminars in Brussels and elsewhere.
The Minister met his Northern Irish counterpart at the North-South Ministerial Council transport sectoral meeting on 12 December 2016 in Armagh, when Brexit was on the agenda. There is regular contact with Northern Ireland counterparts at official level. Senior management in the Department, including the Secretary General, had a four-hour meeting with their UK counterparts on 19 January and the Minister, Deputy Ross, will of course attend the June meeting.
People judge Governments by the extent of legislation that is put through. The previous Government had a big majority and there were guillotines about which Deputy Martin complained every week. There was no real pre-legislative scrutiny. That has all been changed and half the agenda is determined by the Business Committee. There are 140 Private Members' Bills backed up and there are no guillotines. There is full and comprehensive pre-legislative scrutiny. Last year there was the Electoral (Amendment) Act 2016, the Health (Amendment) Act 2016, the Water Services (Amendment) Act 2016, the Proceeds of Crime Act (Amendment) 2016, the Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2016-----
-----the Commission of Investigation (Irish Bank Resolution Corporation) Act 2016, the Paternity Leave and Benefit Act 2016, the Energy Act 2016, the Finance (Certain European and Intergovernmental Obligations) Act 2016, the National Tourism Development Authority (Amendment) Act 2016, the Social Welfare Act 2016, the Appropriation Act 2016, the Planning and Development (Housing) and Residential Tenancies Act 2016, the Finance Act 2016, the Health Insurance (Amendment) Act 2016, the Statute Law Revision Act 2016, the Road Traffic Act 2016, the Courts Act 2016 and the Health (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2016. There has also been the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) Act 2017 and so on.
The Government has published quite an extensive list of Bills since coming to office on 6 May last year. It is wrong to judge any Government on the extent of legislation and it is much better to judge it on the quality.
This Dáil is very different from the previous one, as Deputy Martin is well aware, and because of the different sectors that are represented, the nature of the business has changed. A great deal of work has gone on, is going on and will go on.
I can agree with Deputy Martin when he says workers should be treated with dignity and respect, as they should be. This decision, however, was made by a commercial semi-State body and it is not the subject of direct instruction from the Government. If I am correct, my understanding is a very substantial amount of briquettes are unsold because of the change in the nature of the way things are now. This decision has been pondered for some time. The Deputy states the redundancy package is not acceptable and I do not have the details of what that means. In respect of workers being treated properly with dignity and respect, I share the Deputy's view completely. Deputy Martin will appreciate that Bord na Móna is phasing out the manufacturing of peat briquettes over the next number of years. There was the closure of the Bellacorick station quite a number of years ago, as well as a number of others in the midlands, as a result either of the bogs being cut away or very little being left, leading to a change of use either for hospitality or tourism purposes. Other issues have also been introduced. The facts and figures with respect to these two plants led to the board decision to close one; this was made on the basis of projections and so on. That does not mean the workers should not be treated with dignity and respect, as they should be. I hope they will be. If the issue is they are not being treated appropriately, it is a matter for the board. I hope it hears this message. With respect to what the former Minister, Deputy Alan Kelly, committed to with a combined heat and power process at Littleton, I do not speak for promises made by him. Maybe in a moment of being overly enthusiastic as to what might be-----
In any event, it has not come true. I share the Deputy's view about dignity and respect. A substantial amount of product has not been sold, which is a clear issue. It is determined in part by the change in the nature of the way fossil fuels are treated and the new methods of energy use for domestic houses and commercial premises.
I know.
Derrinlough was chosen as the sole location for future peat briquette production and the new biomass briquette plant. The review of peat operations was prompted by the very significant decline in sales in the past few years. If the product is being produced but not sold and there is no capacity to sell it, it just sits there. That is not the way it should be. Increased competition, consumer trends, lower oil prices, carbon tax and other factors have all resulted in a serious drop in sales in the past four years. There has been no date determined for closure. There is to be an orderly wind down and the opportunity to engage in new training and acquire new skills or other options for the staff who work in Littleton. When the review was concluded, it was stated that in order to sustain the business in the future the Derrinlough plant, at which 61 people are employed, would be the optimum location for future investment to secure the future of the fuels business. The head of Bord na Móna fuels said: This has been a very difficult decision following a period of uncertainty for employees. We took a great deal of care with this review to ensure that a wide range of factors were taken into account. Briquette sales have declined significantly in the past few years as we have encountered unprecedented market, financial and regulatory challenges. Ultimately we had to make a decision.I take the Deputy's point. Bord na Móna is engaging with the employees. I hope it will take on board the view of this House that all of the workers should be treated with respect and dignity and that all options for them should be explored thoroughly, as I would expect Bord na Móna to do in the time ahead. I will not comment any further on the commitment entered into by the former Minister.
Perhaps in a moment of exuberance-----
A date has not been determined. It wants an orderly wind down in order that it can engage with the employees on other options, training, new skills, etc.
When is the Deputy going to join me?
Maybe Deputy Adams and I could form an unprecedented unique partnership when he leaves. He might advise me. In respect of the Single Market, Mr. Barnier spoke here last week and outlined his views on the outcome of the European Council, the paper from the European Commission and the recommendations from the European Parliament. Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland want access to the Single Market, and the Republic of Ireland is in the Single Market and will remain so. As we are speaking today, we do not what know the outcome of the trading negotiations that will apply will be. If, for instance, there are no tariffs between Ireland and Britain, Northern Ireland and the Republic or the UK and the European Union, there are still two different jurisdictions and some arrangement to deal with that will have to be made. The point of agreement by the British Government is that there will not be a return to customs posts as we all knew them many years ago along the Border. The agreement politically is that whatever the outcome on the trading relationship, a different way of dealing with this would have to be found. It is not impossible to have a situation like that to which Deputy Adams referred. The phrases "unique circumstance", "particular and specific circumstances" and "special cases" have been repeated in respect of Northern Ireland. That is why we have the peace process, peace funds and agreement on a range of areas about what should happen with Northern Ireland.  We do not yet have a Northern Executive, and I hope that after the British general election the parties will sit down and put an Executive together before the end of June. That will not sort out this problem, but at least we might have common ground that Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Executive and the parties do not want a return to the border of the past with hard customs posts. Nor does the Republic, and we are not going to have that.However, we do not know the answer to the question of whether there will be tariffs and, if so, to what extent. Even if there are no tariffs, there will still be two jurisdictions, namely, the European Union and the United Kingdom. As the Deputy is well aware, the Six Counties belong to the United Kingdom and will remain so under the Good Friday Agreement until the people decide by their vote, consent and democratic means to change it. If it becomes a reality, it will be accepted by both Governments and recognised by the European Union. Until such time as the divorce proceedings deal with borders, modalities, potential liabilities, citizens' rights and reciprocal rights, we will not get into the detail and complexity of what will arise.
I happen to know what the position is. An agreement has been reached with the European Council that Ireland will be recognised as having particular and unique circumstances which apply to it. The European Council has also recognised that it has no intention of returning to a hard border. Deputy Gerry Adams says there will be no tariffs, but he is not in a position to do so, given that negotiations on the issue have not yet commenced. I am telling the Deputy that even if there were no tariffs, we would still have two jurisdictions, namely, the European Union and the United Kingdom. There might be customs checks at Pembroke or Holyhead. If one looks at eastern European countries where border checks applied in the recent past, there were eight and ten hour delays. That is not what we want as it leads to inefficiencies, inordinate delays, paperwork, jobs issues and all the rest. We do not want that. We have a situation where freight and machinery can move throughout Europe on the basis of the invoices alone. That is the Single Market. The British Government is stating it wants to have as close as possible a relationship with the European Union, albeit that is what we now have. The British Government made the decision that it wanted out of the Single Market and a changed status in respect of a customs union. These are matters which have not even been talked about in the detail that will lead to negotiations. The first issue to be addressed, as Mr. Barnier pointed out here, consists of liabilities and modalities, what that means and whether there is a figure. The second issue is citizens' rights and reciprocal rights, while the third is the Border. We have all of these things while Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland want to be part of the Single Market. However, there is an aggregate vote, as a result of which the United Kingdom decided to leave and which is causing all kinds of trouble. In the next two and a half to three years an inordinate amount of political time will be taken up in dealing with something we did not wish for in the first place. However, we have to respect it and deal with the consequences.
The Deputy's solution is facile to say the least. She could have said 50,000, 70,000 or 100,000 because she seems to imagine housing can be conjured up just like that. She stated these things are not real. What is real is population growth of 3.8% which is greater than the growth in housing stock, which is 0.4%. The average household size has increased for the first time since 1966. Overall housing stock increased by a net 9,000 units. Respondents reported 33,436 units built, admittedly since 2011. I understand 23,000 families and individuals are on HAP schemes. That is a real figure but they are also real people, families and individuals assisted through HAP and living in their homes. The unusual thing is I never hear of anybody being interviewed who has been moved into a house with which they are happy with their families. It is if they never existed. They have been moved out of hotels and out of homelessness and into sustainable long-term housing conditions. It is as if they are just figures who moved off into the darkness.
Planning permission has been granted for 16,375 new homes. That is a real figure. Unlike Deputy Collins, we have to build the houses. This means when we have the planning permission we have to have somebody with the blocks, concrete and facilities to be able to build the houses. This is why rapid build housing has been part and parcel of the five pillars for housing we have here. Am I to understand when the Deputy says this that George's Place in Dún Laoghaire, which is of interest to Deputy Boyd Barrett-----
There are to be 12 homes provided there. In St. Aidan's in Brookfield in Tallaght, 71 homes-----
In Poppintree in Ballymun there are 22 homes, all of which are occupied.If Deputy Collins and I went there I wonder if we would see those houses. Would we meet the families who are there? Would she tell me that they are not real, that they are a mirage-----
-----or that there is something there that is not real? There will be 24 homes built in Cherry Orchard, 30 in Mourne Road in Drimnagh, 39 in St. Helena's in Finglas, and so on. These are real sites, real opportunities and places where construction is under way to provide rapid build homes for people who need them. I admit there are challenges facing the Minister, Deputy Coveney, in addressing the question of not resorting to the use of hotels by the end of June. I think the Deputy referred to 800 families. My information from yesterday's Cabinet sub-committee meeting is that the figure is about 600 and my information from the housing department is that she will see a very substantial drop in that number by the end of June. It is always a very difficult challenge to meet because it is exceptionally ambitious but they are really focused on moving this along. As well as that, there are 28,000 vacant homes in the suburbs of Dublin. These are real dwellings but sometimes when one goes to look at them the figures might not be as accurate. There are 750 in the Finglas area but sometimes these are not habitable and have to be brought back to a good shape, and there are incentives and opportunities to do that, whether they be public or private houses.
Yes, and that is part of the five pillars set out by the Minister, Deputy Coveney, in his programme. The State land mapping process has concluded that there are over 700 local authority and Housing Agency owned sites-----
-----totalling about 1,700 ha, which is a substantial amount of land. There is the potential to build, as Deputy Collins said, 50,000 homes.
The position is that local authorities are now tasked with preparing strategic plans to get on with that business. Twenty five or 30 years ago, local authorities always built more than enough houses and then they got out of that business entirely.
This Government has given money, facilities and incentives to local authorities to do their job. For instance, we are now making rental a more attractive proposition for investors. The Department of Finance has set up a working group on the tax and fiscal treatment of landlords, which includes officials from the Department of Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government. We are taking action to bring vacant properties back into use. The repair and lease scheme, under which local authorities will refurbish vacant properties and lease them from their owners, was rolled out in February. That is real. That will deliver 3,500 properties by 2021. It will cost €150 million. They are making money available through the Housing Finance Agency to higher education institutes. They can now borrow money to build student accommodation, which will free up those houses where students are currently located.We support the build-to-rent development through pathfinder sites. In February, the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, Deputy Simon Coveney, launched major infrastructural works at the Cherrywood site in Dublin, costing €35 million. We have requested the local authorities in rent pressure zones to use publicly owned sites to kickstart supply. In that regard, Dublin City Council brought forward a land initiative covering the three sites, at O'Devaney Gardens, Oscar Traynor Road and St. Michael's in Inchicore. They are seeking partners to deliver a mix of social, affordable and private housing. These are all real aspects of the progress being made in terms of housing.
The Deputy raised questions about potential corruption, bugging and accountability, and she raised the most distressing issue of all, which was the video of a young woman who is no longer with us. We share the grief of her family over the tragedy. That matter is being investigated as a matter of urgency by the Garda. I understand from reports that the footage was taken on a mobile phone.The Deputy made her point about that. She also made a point about bugging, an issue of particular importance and on which I have read the newspaper reports. As the Deputy will be well aware, there is a designated judge who deals with the question of listening to particular individuals. The Deputy does not comment on any of these cases because they are small in number. I have the last report from 10 November last year by Mr. Justice Paul McDermott in front of me. He states:2. On 27th October, 2016 I attended at the Office of the Department of Justice and Equality ... and met with officials who made available to me documents and records relating to the operation of the Acts, as requested. I examined the files and records furnished and spoke to the officials responsible for the operation of the Acts and liaison with other authorities in respect of same. All documents requested by me were furnished and all questions posed by me in relation to the files and records produced were answered to my satisfaction.3. On 27th October, 2016 I attended at the headquarters of An Garda Síochána ... I met with officers and personnel responsible for the operation of the above Acts. I examined computer records and hard copy tiles relating to the operation of the above Acts which were made available for my inspection and all documents and records which I requested were furnished and examined. All questions posed by me in relation to the operation of the Acts and the documents and records produced were answered to my satisfaction.He concludes: "I am satisfied having examined the records and documents produced to me and from the information conveyed to me at these meetings that the relevant State authorities are in compliance with the provisions of the above Acts as of the date of this report". What the Deputy referred to in respect of allegations of bugging goes back quite a number of years. I do not have the date, but obviously there was a situation where there were different Ministers for Justice for quite a long time. In respect of bugging, this is a very serious matter and the Minister for Justice and Equality of the day is not in a position to order that an individual be eavesdropped upon using telecommunications without having an official of the Department verify in the first instance that it would comply with the Act and that it would be overseen by the High Court judge with responsibility for this matter. There is a lot of stuff in the ether about which I would like to know the facts. As I understand it, the case the Deputy mentioned went before the courts not for bugging or eavesdropping but for personal injuries. It was a different matter and this was an element of the case. Be that as it may, it is a very serious allegation. I am giving the Deputy the result of the judge's most recent report on compliance with the Act in so far as the Department of Justice and Equality and An Garda Síochána are concerned. All of the evidence, files and computers were made available and all of the questions were answered to the satisfaction of the judge. The Commissioner of An Garda Síochána is the Accounting Officer for the Garda Vote. She is responsible to the Committee of Public Accounts for dealing with the Vote. The matter is being investigated by the committee and it is not for me or the Deputy to interfere with its work. In law, the Commissioner is responsible to the Committee of Public Accounts as Accounting Officer for the Garda Vote and we should let the committee do its work.
On the Deputy's comment on dysfunctionality, this morning the Government approved the commission on the future of policing in Ireland with detailed terms of reference and a list of people who have great experience in the law, policing and other elements of society. The commission's report is not being asked for in 15 months. There will be a rolling report whereby the commission can make recommendations, on which the Government will act, on a regular basis. In other words, as recommendations come through in respect of policing, they can be dealt with by the Government, instead of waiting a full 15 or 18 months for a final report. The terms of reference are good, detailed and exact and the commission will give a different impetus to the way the culture in the Garda evolves. The independent Policing Authority recently made an appointment as a new assistant commissioner of a policeman whom I happen to know from his work in the north inner city. He is the kind of person the Deputy would be proud to have appointed by an independent body. He has done his work in difficult circumstances in the past few years.The Deputy shakes her head. Maybe she does not agree. The fact of the matter is that no senior appointment to the gardaí in future will be made by anything to do with any Commissioner or anything to do with any Government, but by an independent Policing Authority, which is the way that it should be.
The Deputy makes a comment and does not say what she wants. She said before that-----
-----she was not looking for anybody's head and talked about dysfunctionality. Then she said to me to do what I am supposed to do.
The fact of the matter is that the Tánaiste accepts political responsibility for her actions here.
All the recommendations of the interim report on Templemore have been implemented by this Commissioner. This is the Commissioner who has referred this to the Committee of Public Accounts to whom she is responsible as Accounting Officer.
She is accountable as Accounting Officer for the Vote to An Garda Síochána. While the Deputy says it is not being investigated-----
The Committee of Public Accounts considered this the other day and whether it should expedite its analysis of all the reports it has received.
The changes that have been made are fundamental and it takes some time for a change of culture to evolve in an organisation like An Garda Síochána and Deputy Shortall will find that, over a period of time, as the independent Policing Authority makes its senior appointments, both civilian and from or to the force-----
-----there will be an increase in the public's confidence and trust because of the way the nature and culture of the gardaí will change. Of course there have been difficulties - so many - and not just now. The Deputy talked about bugging earlier and about a time back in the early 2000s. I do not have evidence of that. I am giving the Deputy the changed-----
-----nature of what has happened here from the report I received from Mr. Justice Paul Anthony McDermott about bugging-----
-----following comments the Deputy made earlier.
Deputy Boyd Barrett raised an important point but I do not want anybody to be under any illusions, presumption or perception that this allegation is relevant to the current period. It is important Deputy Boyd Barrett understands that.
My understanding is-----
My understanding-----
Let us be clear. My understanding is this allegation refers to a period back in the early 2000s. There was a judge in place at that time. I will not make any further comment on it.
It is not correct for the Deputy to stand up and leave a perception that this carry-on, which is very serious, is of the current time. The second thing I want to say to Deputy Howlin-----
-----is the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality has come before the House on a regular basis where there are provisions to call any Minister before the House either by way of Topical Issue debate or priority question. The Tánaiste also answers questions on Thursday mornings in the vast majority of cases.
The Government considered the legislative programme this morning. I will ask the Whip, Deputy Doherty, to deal with the question.
I do not have the details of what happened back then.
What I read for the Deputy and the nation was the last report received from the justice dealing with the issue.
He had asked questions of An Garda Síochána and the Department of Justice and Equality. He had asked for records, computer records and other information.
In both cases, that is, in respect of An Garda Síochána and the Department, all of the questions had been answered to his satisfaction. His conclusion which is lodged in the Oireachtas Library was that-----
-----An Garda Síochána and the Department were fully in compliance with the Acts.
It is not only about a small number of cases in which the law was complied with because he asked questions about a range of issues, as a justice would, in that regard-----
That was his report. I do not have the report from the early 2000s and do not know for what period it was or who the Minister for Justice was at the time.
I will ask the Minister for Education and Skills to deal with that question.
I will have to come back to the Deputy. I know the case he is referring to. I did not hear the Minister's comments but I will come back to the Deputy this evening.
This legislation is very important. Ireland is well ahead in dealing with data protection, which is being handled by the Minister of State, Deputy Eoghan Murphy. The heads of this Bill were approved by the Cabinet last week. The issues mentioned by the Deputy can be raised, dealt with and teased out when the Bill goes for pre-legislative scrutiny. In light of the nature and scale of investment in this country by multinational companies that have extensive assets in digitised material, we need to be fully compliant in respect of this issue so that we will be ready for the new directive from the European Commission, which will kick in during January of next year. That means we will have to enhance the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner, which we have changed and funded and to which we have provided experienced personnel. Further enhancement of that office might be needed, given the nature of the cases that might arise. The heads of this important Bill were approved last week. It will go for pre-legislative scrutiny. I am quite sure the Deputy's comments will be treated with proper respect in that context.
Níl an t-eolas cruinn agam. Tá súil agam go mbeidh mé in ann freagra a thabhairt don Teachta tráthnóna inniu nó amárach.
I accept that everybody who is due a payment or grant should be able to receive it on time. This, however, is not a legislative question. I am sure that a written Dáil question giving the details would result in an answer being given. I take the point about the scoping exercise that was being carried out and I will arrange for the Minister, Deputy Creed, to follow through on that. The process and the system are in place and if farmers were being paid 75% of what they are owed, the Deputy would be asking me in this House why were they were not paid the remaining 25%.
The fact of the matter is that the person will get 100% payment if they get it right in the beginning.
Deputy Durkan has raised this issue many times over the years. He is aware of the sequencing of consecutive sentences and that bail can be refused. The Criminal Justice Bill 2016, which is the new bail Bill, will be dealt with in the House tomorrow.
Yes.
With respect to Deputy Healy-Rae, it is an important issue but it is not a legislative question.
It is a matter of allocation within the Vote for a very important issue and the HSE manager should be able to advise the Deputy as to the opportunities that exist to transfer other moneys into that Vote to ensure these orthodontic procedures can be carried out for people who need them in Cork and Kerry. That is not an issue of legislation, as Deputy Healy-Rae knows.
There is but-----
I said it was not a legislative matter. It is a matter of adjusting moneys within the Vote. Deputy Healy-Rae is perfectly entitled to raise it. I was just answering the Deputy's question.
I am sure this is a matter for discussion between the local authority and the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government. The question the Deputy has raised has not come before the Government for a decision because I assume the local authority, in the first instance, has its responsibilities and may decide to engage with the Minister with responsibility for housing in respect of the SDZ and what that limit is. I will have the fact of that matter checked for Deputy Ryan and revert to him on it.
No, I cannot tell the Deputy but I will find out for him.
TheI am also advised that following her withdrawal from service, the retention of 
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 4, inclusive, together.I travelled to The Hague on 21 April 2017 for a meeting with the Dutch Prime Minister, Mr. Mark Rutte, and the Danish Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Our discussions were largely focused on Brexit, but we also touched briefly on EU-US relations. The meeting took place in the context of the Government's ongoing programme of strategic engagement on Brexit and was the latest in a series of meetings with my EU counterparts. I also met recently my counterparts in Germany, Belgium, Poland and Spain and the Presidents of the EU institutions and the head of the Brexit task force who was in Dublin last week. I have written to congratulate Mr. Emmanuel Macron on his election as President of the Republic of France. The meeting in The Hague provided an opportunity to share our views on the issues arising from Brexit ahead of the adoption of the European Union's negotiating guidelines by the European Council on 9 April. Ireland has much in common with the Netherlands and Denmark, not just in terms of geographic proximity and strong trade and export relations with the United Kingdom but also in terms of shared perspectives on the importance of a liberal EU trade policy. Although Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark are more likely than other partners to be negatively affected by the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union, we agreed on the importance of maintaining the EU27 unity that has marked our approach until now. I also took the opportunity at the meeting, as I do in all my bilateral engagements, to explain in some detail our unique concerns arising from Brexit, including protecting the peace process, avoiding a hard border and maintaining the common travel area with the United Kingdom. I outlined the particular implications for Ireland, North and South, and also described recent political developments in Northern Ireland. I am pleased that Ireland's unique concerns have been fully reflected in the guidelines that outline the European Union's approach to the withdrawal negotiations.In this context, I am very grateful for the understanding and support of my Dutch and Danish counterparts, and all of my EU counterparts, as we progress work on these important and sensitive issues. It will be important to continue working with like-minded partners such as The Netherlands and Denmark and in the future to proactively defend our shared perspectives in the face of new voting majorities in the European Union. In the months and years ahead we are determined to protect and advance our interests, both within and through the European Union on the wider global stage.
I thank the Deputy for his comment on continuing connections with small states which is very important. The Minister of State at the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade with responsibility for European Affairs, Deputy Dara Murphy, has on several occasions been to all member states, particularly the small member states because of the implications of Brexit. As Deputy Brendan Howlin is aware, most of the economic reports indicate that the countries most adversely affected would be Ireland, The Netherlands and Denmark. I have already had a meeting with Prime Minister Michel of Belgium and we want to keep these contacts alive. I wrote to President Macron following his election and said we would be most affected by a hard Brexit and that we would appreciate and count on France's continued support in addressing the unique challenges we faced. I made the point that Ireland and France had always had a very warm relationship. France is a big buyer of food, services and so on from Ireland and we want to maintain that position. I do not favour having a federal Europe. Given how near the European Union has been to collapse in the recent period, the electorates in The Netherlands and France and in Austria with the election of its President appear to be refocusing on Europe. I see the same happening in the latest results in Germany which is moving towards a pro-European party. The Germans will make their choice in federal elections in September and I expect the Chancellor, Dr. Merkel, to be returned again. Given that there will more than likely be a very strong alliance between Germany and France and, as Deputy Brendan Howlin is aware, that the real reason for setting up the European Economic Community was to prevent the historic difficulties between France and Germany, it is important from the European Union point of view that there be strong countries which work with small countries for everybody's benefit.
He made his comments in Germany. The Chancellor said some of these things could be considered, but we have always taken the view, as the Deputy did when he was President of the Council, that whatever views are put forward, Ireland is quite prepared to consider and talk about these things. However, we have very clear lines that we do not cross. On his first visit to Berlin as the new President, Mr. Macron set out several issues. We should wait and see how they are presented in more detail and then talk about them. We saw this happen before with the common consolidated corporate tax base and transaction taxes. Ireland has always had the capacity to say let us see what is on the line and talk about it. we then find out that other countries have similar views, for or against. That is how it works. I have never favoured having a federal Union.
I do actually. The Good Friday Agreement predates the decision on Brexit by 19 years and we have been very much at pains to point out that the Brexit referendum result does not influence, tinker with, or change the Good Friday Agreement in any way. As the two Governments are co-guarantors of the Agreement, we want it to be implemented in full. Protecting the gains of the peace process in Northern Ireland is one of the Government's front-line priorities in dealing with the impact of Brexit. That hard won peace which was founded on the Good Friday Agreement cannot be compromised. The Government will continue to ensure the EU-UK negotiations will take full account of the all-island issues and Northern Ireland, including ensuring the Good Friday Agreement is fully respected and upheld and that an open border is maintained. That is our position. I agree that the Good Friday Agreement is an internationally binding agreement which was brought together after many years of troubles. Those who put it together were visionary in the way they set it out. It was not written to be influenced by Brexit and the Brexit referendum result does not impact on it. We have maintained that separation very clearly in our discussions at European level.
I did not hear the remarks of Secretary Davis. I note the judgment of the European Court of Justice today in respect of Singapore. That means that the EU-Singapore free trade agreement is a mixed agreement and there are elements which are of national competence and require national ratification. The same applies to the CETA agreement with Canada, which is a mixed agreement and will require national ratification in due course. In that case, we favour provisional ratification in order to ensure the deal works which is the best way of demonstrating the practical benefits for consumers and SMEs. Deputy Martin is correct when he said we have to have the details sooner. It means that all parliaments will have to have international trade committees so that they are not left without adequate information as negotiations on trade deals proceed. This matter has been raised in the House. Deputies have said they do not know what is in an agreement, despite the fact that the information might be on a website or have been published in book form. Such agreements can be very complicated, as the Deputy knows. If there has to be ratification by all of the parliaments, that will probably delay the process but may have a benefit in that parliaments would be informed on a rolling basis of what is being discussed so that their international free trade committees or whatever else would be very well-informed about the process. We have dealt in considerable detail with our counterparts in London and Belfast in respect of the Border issues. Deputy Martin is aware that the three issues are the Border, modalities and liabilities about whatever contractual obligations the United Kingdom has from joining the European Union and rights and reciprocal rights for people who live in European countries. Since 1922, we have dealt on a bilateral basis with Britain via the common travel area, which does not involve just travel but also residency, the right to work and social protection and benefits. The British Government has agreed with what we have said, namely that there is no return to the Border of the past. We still do not know what the future structure of trade will be or what is being proposed by the United Kingdom with the European Union. That is where the complexities will lie. We will not get to that issue until there is substantial progress on the first three priorities I outlined. We have a political 
I propose to take Questions Nos. 5 to 8, inclusive, together. I spoke to Prime Minister May by phone on 18 April following the announcement of her plans to hold a general election in the UK. We discussed the upcoming Brexit negotiations and I reiterated our commitment to ensuring the best possible outcome for Ireland while negotiating as an integral part of the EU 27 team. We also discussed the need to recognise the close trading links between our intertwined economies and re-affirmed our commitment to an open Border and the retention of the common travel area. We discussed the political situation in Northern Ireland and noted that the election would have a direct impact on the timing of the ongoing talks process. I expressed the hope that the talks could continue to a successful conclusion and I emphasised to the Prime Minister that a return to direct rule in Northern Ireland could not be contemplated. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Charles Flanagan, had a range of contacts with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the political parties regarding the merits of continuing structured talks in the context of an election campaign. There was a widespread view that, given the demands and constraints of the election campaign, the best course was to pause the current talks until after the general election takes place on 8 June. The new legislative deadline for forming the Executive is 29 June. There will, therefore, be sufficient opportunity after 8 June for talks to resume and for the parties, with the appropriate support and involvement of the two Governments, to re-engage on the urgent task of forming a new Executive and taking forward the implementation of outstanding commitments from previous agreements. It is critically important to see devolved government restored and working effectively in the interests of the people of Northern Ireland, in particular in the context of Brexit. As a co-guarantor of the Good Friday Agreement, the Government is determined to uphold its principles and protect its institutions. We will continue to work to this end with the British Government to support and facilitate the parties in their efforts to reach agreement.
In reply to Deputy Adams's opening question, I note that the date for the inquest in respect of the ten civilians killed in Ballymurphy is September of next year. I commend everyone who was so committed through their tragedy to seeing that a date would be fixed for the commencement of an inquest. The Dáil adopted an all-party motion in 2015 in support of the Ballymurphy families who continue to seek an effective inquiry into the incident in which those 11 people died. It is one of the 56 legacy inquest cases from the Troubles which are still waiting to proceed in Northern Ireland and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Charles Flanagan, continues to raise the matter. I hope that in the new situation here and given the fact that we had Fresh Start in Stormont, I genuinely believe that contains the opportunity in its own way to deal with these legacy issues, sensitive and raw though they may be and will be when these things come to light. The timely holding of inquests is an effective part of the right to life as set out in Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. At least, a commencement date has been fixed and is known, which is an important element. In reply to Deputy Howlin, he knows what the options are. Either there is an election-----
-----direct rule, or an Executive is formed. I hope the parties will now focus on the fact that they will be sitting down again a day or two after the result of a British general election in which it is estimated the Prime Minister will receive a very much enhanced majority over the one delivered in the last election. For that to happen, the parties have to want it to happen. That means, in particular, that the DUP and Sinn Féin must have a belief that they can put an Executive together. Of course, there are different political opinions and differences of emphasis in a whole range of areas, but that is no reason the parties cannot create an Executive to look at the question of distribution of finances for people to get on about their business. There is the whole issue of Brexit here, as well as those of the agrisector, trade unions and businesses. The people from Northern Ireland who voiced their opinions at the all-island civic forum on two occasions must be represented. They need an Executive to add to the voice of Government here in dealing with the outcome of Brexit when the negotiations start. I hope the two main parties will decide, irrespective of the differences they have, that it is imperative to put an Executive in place. I hope, and I have to believe, that will happen before the end of June.
Deputy Martin raised a very important point about the very good relations, with a few notable exceptions, between Ireland and Downing Street. Those have been very strong in the last number of years. I must note, also, that there is regular engagement at the very highest official level between here and Downing Street on all of these issues. I am sorry the Executive was collapsed and that a replacement was not created. Irrespective of how good or strong it was, it is better to have one than not. The only other options for the Secretary of State are to have more elections or to have direct rule.The Executive is the best option of those. As I said to Deputy Howlin, if the DUP and Sinn Féin do not want to have an Executive then it cannot be formed. They have got to accept their political responsibility. They are elected to an Assembly, the purpose of which under the Good Friday Agreement is to have an Executive to direct affairs for Northern Ireland. As the Deputy knows, this means the North-South Ministerial Council, all of the different councils that can come from it, the issues that will arise because of cross-Border organisations and the administration that entails. Look at Brexit now. We will have to deal with the road to Derry and other cross-Border activities. The Government has opened a European Investment Bank office with a view to having major infrastructural projects which have streams of income to pay off those loans. That will involve, if we want to operate on a cross-Border basis, consultation with somebody. I would prefer to have an Executive of whatever shape or form that at least we could engage with properly and formally. Deputy Martin raises a central issue here. The Executive is gone. It was collapsed and has not been restored. I hope in the two or three days after the British election that Deputy Adams will instruct his leader in the North, Ms O'Neill, and the DUP to get together, as these two parties are in a position to form an Executive in the interests of the peoples of Northern Ireland. The answer to Deputy Burton's question is "Yes". We must have opportunities for engagement, as Deputy Martin pointed out, at official level but also at bilateral level. There will be issues that will have to be teased out, as the Deputy well knows from long experience. Ireland will be with the EU 26 in the formal negotiations being conducted by Michelle Barnier. In the course of the discussions there will, of course, be issues that arise that are best understood by the British and Irish because we have been dealing with them for very many years, and we will have to have the opportunity to engage bilaterally. Mr. Barnier will understand this as a complement or as a supplement to the formal negotiations he will lead on behalf of the European Union. The Deputy is right when she says there will be issues that will arise that may be specific and complicated and that will need to be teased out to arrive at a compromise between the Irish and English, so the answer to the question is "Yes".
I propose to take Questions Nos. 9 to 12, inclusive, together. As I outlined last week in my statement to the House, I attended the meeting of the European Council on 29 April. This was the first meeting since Prime Minister May formally notified the European Union of the UK's intention to leave, thereby triggering Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, and it was, therefore, a meeting of the 27 remaining member states. We adopted the EU negotiating guidelines, and had a broad-ranging discussion about the process ahead. Presidents Tusk and Juncker also outlined the process and timelines around the relocation of the two EU agencies currently located in the UK. I was pleased with the outcome of the meeting, including the overall EU approach to the withdrawal negotiations, and the acknowledgement of the need to address Ireland's unique concerns, as set out in the guidelines. I was also very pleased with the declaration which was agreed by the European Council, which provides reassurance that no provision of the Good Friday Agreement, including the provision relating to unity, will be undermined by the UK departure from the EU. It was by no means a given that Ireland’s position would be seen as a priority for the negotiations but, thanks to our strategic, persistent and patient work, and the understanding and support of our European partners, Ireland's specific concerns were fully acknowledged in the guidelines. Supporting and protecting the achievements, benefits and commitments of the peace process; avoiding a hard border; and protecting the common travel area will now be addressed as priorities in the exit negotiations. There was no discussion about the future of the EU at this April meeting of the European Council, but it has been considered and discussed at a number of meetings, including informal meetings of the European Council in Bratislava, in Brussels, in Malta and in Rome. In my discussions at these meetings, in my bilateral engagements with EU counterparts, and here in the House, I have consistently emphasised the need for the EU to focus on delivering for its citizens in areas where it can add real value. I have cautioned against pursuing deeper integration at this time and have instead recommended that we focus on where the EU is most effective, for example, in relation to the Single Market, the digital single market, jobs, growth and investment. I did not have any bilateral meetings at the European Council on 29 April, although I did of course engage with my counterparts at the meeting and informally on the margins.
We have been consistent on that. The European agenda should not stop with Brexit. It has to go beyond that and the completion of the digital Single Market, capital markets and the EMU, is the agenda for the creation of millions of jobs both in Europe and beyond. That agenda is in place and has been followed, although not to completion because it contains a number of challenges that need to be dealt with. We participate very strongly on that and as the Deputy knows, the last Eurobarometer poll showed that 88% of Irish people supported the concept of European membership and Ireland continuing to be a member of the European Union. That is where we stay. I was glad to see the election of a French President who is clearly very much in favour of the continuation of the European Union because if that election had gone wrong and Marine Le Pen had been elected as President, withdrawing from the euro and from the European Union and dealing with the closing of borders would have created a fundamental collapse of the European Union itself. There is a retrenchment here in terms of what the European Union actually means now and I have to say that for the first time since I began to attend European Council meetings, and the first meeting was in Malta, people began to realise just what was at stake. Do they want to hold on to a European Union and a Single Market or do they not? The point made by Mr. Barnier last week was that it comes to a point where people begin to say, "You have got 400 million or 500 million in a Single Market, freedom of movement of people, capital, services and all of that and do you want to throw it away for the sake of hundreds of thousands of jobs in small businesses?" Obviously, that is not the case. We are very strongly in favour of the European Union and no other country, with respect to them, has the same solidarity as we have here because as the Leas Cheann-Comhairle will recall, in the middle of the recession we had to have a referendum on the fiscal stability treaty, which Deputy Howlin raised last week in terms of the fiscal rules. The people here could have given the Government a real kicking at the time but they decided that their place was with the euro, the eurozone and the European Union and they voted 60-40 in favour of that. Nobody here is in favour of treaties but sometimes if sovereignty is transferred in part to the European Union the Attorney General of the day makes a recommendation on whether a referendum is required. Mr. Barnier pointed out last week that if we have a situation where Britain withdraws from the Union and there is a €12 billion hole in the budget every year, the countries that are paying do not want to pay any more while the countries that are receiving do not want to receive any less, so what do we do? Do we force countries to pay more or do we force countries to cut programmes? We can imagine what could happen in a country like Ireland with the CAP and all the different schemes available for farmers, from the uplands down to the lowlands and the tillage schemes. I agree with Deputy Howlin because I believe there will be more emphasis on social Europe in the time ahead but we cannot have these ghettos or  Deputy Haughey raised the Franco-German relationship. I believe that will be very strong. Clearly, two big countries with big economies will get their way in the vast majority of cases and therefore relationships between small countries and the likes of France and Germany will be of particular importance. It was always my view that the European Union thrived when big countries worked with small countries in the interests of everybody. If we are all equal as citizens in the European Union and if everybody is to have the same opportunity, small countries need that opportunity. Deputy Haughey is right that there will be a cementing of that relationship and in that sense we will have to face change, but we should face it with courage. It does not always mean that there will be treaties but we should never be afraid to talk about the issues on the table because we might find we have many allies in small countries who would say this would not be in anybody's interest.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 4, inclusive, together.I travelled to The Hague on 21 April 2017 for a meeting with the Dutch Prime Minister, Mr. Mark Rutte, and the Danish Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Our discussions were largely focused on Brexit, but we also touched briefly on EU-US relations. The meeting took place in the context of the Government's ongoing programme of strategic engagement on Brexit and was the latest in a series of meetings with my EU counterparts. I also met recently my counterparts in Germany, Belgium, Poland and Spain and the Presidents of the EU institutions and the head of the Brexit task force who was in Dublin last week. I have written to congratulate Mr. Emmanuel Macron on his election as President of the Republic of France. The meeting in The Hague provided an opportunity to share our views on the issues arising from Brexit ahead of the adoption of the European Union's negotiating guidelines by the European Council on 9 April. Ireland has much in common with the Netherlands and Denmark, not just in terms of geographic proximity and strong trade and export relations with the United Kingdom but also in terms of shared perspectives on the importance of a liberal EU trade policy. Although Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark are more likely than other partners to be negatively affected by the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union, we agreed on the importance of maintaining the EU27 unity that has marked our approach until now. I also took the opportunity at the meeting, as I do in all my bilateral engagements, to explain in some detail our unique concerns arising from Brexit, including protecting the peace process, avoiding a hard border and maintaining the common travel area with the United Kingdom. I outlined the particular implications for Ireland, North and South, and also described recent political developments in Northern Ireland. I am pleased that Ireland's unique concerns have been fully reflected in the guidelines that outline the European Union's approach to the withdrawal negotiations.In this context, I am very grateful for the understanding and support of my Dutch and Danish counterparts, and all of my EU counterparts, as we progress work on these important and sensitive issues. It will be important to continue working with like-minded partners such as The Netherlands and Denmark and in the future to proactively defend our shared perspectives in the face of new voting majorities in the European Union. In the months and years ahead we are determined to protect and advance our interests, both within and through the European Union on the wider global stage.
I thank the Deputy for his comment on continuing connections with small states which is very important. The Minister of State at the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade with responsibility for European Affairs, Deputy Dara Murphy, has on several occasions been to all member states, particularly the small member states because of the implications of Brexit. As Deputy Brendan Howlin is aware, most of the economic reports indicate that the countries most adversely affected would be Ireland, The Netherlands and Denmark. I have already had a meeting with Prime Minister Michel of Belgium and we want to keep these contacts alive. I wrote to President Macron following his election and said we would be most affected by a hard Brexit and that we would appreciate and count on France's continued support in addressing the unique challenges we faced. I made the point that Ireland and France had always had a very warm relationship. France is a big buyer of food, services and so on from Ireland and we want to maintain that position. I do not favour having a federal Europe. Given how near the European Union has been to collapse in the recent period, the electorates in The Netherlands and France and in Austria with the election of its President appear to be refocusing on Europe. I see the same happening in the latest results in Germany which is moving towards a pro-European party. The Germans will make their choice in federal elections in September and I expect the Chancellor, Dr. Merkel, to be returned again. Given that there will more than likely be a very strong alliance between Germany and France and, as Deputy Brendan Howlin is aware, that the real reason for setting up the European Economic Community was to prevent the historic difficulties between France and Germany, it is important from the European Union point of view that there be strong countries which work with small countries for everybody's benefit.
He made his comments in Germany. The Chancellor said some of these things could be considered, but we have always taken the view, as the Deputy did when he was President of the Council, that whatever views are put forward, Ireland is quite prepared to consider and talk about these things. However, we have very clear lines that we do not cross. On his first visit to Berlin as the new President, Mr. Macron set out several issues. We should wait and see how they are presented in more detail and then talk about them. We saw this happen before with the common consolidated corporate tax base and transaction taxes. Ireland has always had the capacity to say let us see what is on the line and talk about it. we then find out that other countries have similar views, for or against. That is how it works. I have never favoured having a federal Union.
I do actually. The Good Friday Agreement predates the decision on Brexit by 19 years and we have been very much at pains to point out that the Brexit referendum result does not influence, tinker with, or change the Good Friday Agreement in any way. As the two Governments are co-guarantors of the Agreement, we want it to be implemented in full. Protecting the gains of the peace process in Northern Ireland is one of the Government's front-line priorities in dealing with the impact of Brexit. That hard won peace which was founded on the Good Friday Agreement cannot be compromised. The Government will continue to ensure the EU-UK negotiations will take full account of the all-island issues and Northern Ireland, including ensuring the Good Friday Agreement is fully respected and upheld and that an open border is maintained. That is our position. I agree that the Good Friday Agreement is an internationally binding agreement which was brought together after many years of troubles. Those who put it together were visionary in the way they set it out. It was not written to be influenced by Brexit and the Brexit referendum result does not impact on it. We have maintained that separation very clearly in our discussions at European level.
I did not hear the remarks of Secretary Davis. I note the judgment of the European Court of Justice today in respect of Singapore. That means that the EU-Singapore free trade agreement is a mixed agreement and there are elements which are of national competence and require national ratification. The same applies to the CETA agreement with Canada, which is a mixed agreement and will require national ratification in due course. In that case, we favour provisional ratification in order to ensure the deal works which is the best way of demonstrating the practical benefits for consumers and SMEs. Deputy Martin is correct when he said we have to have the details sooner. It means that all parliaments will have to have international trade committees so that they are not left without adequate information as negotiations on trade deals proceed. This matter has been raised in the House. Deputies have said they do not know what is in an agreement, despite the fact that the information might be on a website or have been published in book form. Such agreements can be very complicated, as the Deputy knows. If there has to be ratification by all of the parliaments, that will probably delay the process but may have a benefit in that parliaments would be informed on a rolling basis of what is being discussed so that their international free trade committees or whatever else would be very well-informed about the process. We have dealt in considerable detail with our counterparts in London and Belfast in respect of the Border issues. Deputy Martin is aware that the three issues are the Border, modalities and liabilities about whatever contractual obligations the United Kingdom has from joining the European Union and rights and reciprocal rights for people who live in European countries. Since 1922, we have dealt on a bilateral basis with Britain via the common travel area, which does not involve just travel but also residency, the right to work and social protection and benefits. The British Government has agreed with what we have said, namely that there is no return to the Border of the past. We still do not know what the future structure of trade will be or what is being proposed by the United Kingdom with the European Union. That is where the complexities will lie. We will not get to that issue until there is substantial progress on the first three priorities I outlined. We have a political 
I propose to take Questions Nos. 5 to 8, inclusive, together. I spoke to Prime Minister May by phone on 18 April following the announcement of her plans to hold a general election in the UK. We discussed the upcoming Brexit negotiations and I reiterated our commitment to ensuring the best possible outcome for Ireland while negotiating as an integral part of the EU 27 team. We also discussed the need to recognise the close trading links between our intertwined economies and re-affirmed our commitment to an open Border and the retention of the common travel area. We discussed the political situation in Northern Ireland and noted that the election would have a direct impact on the timing of the ongoing talks process. I expressed the hope that the talks could continue to a successful conclusion and I emphasised to the Prime Minister that a return to direct rule in Northern Ireland could not be contemplated. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Charles Flanagan, had a range of contacts with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the political parties regarding the merits of continuing structured talks in the context of an election campaign. There was a widespread view that, given the demands and constraints of the election campaign, the best course was to pause the current talks until after the general election takes place on 8 June. The new legislative deadline for forming the Executive is 29 June. There will, therefore, be sufficient opportunity after 8 June for talks to resume and for the parties, with the appropriate support and involvement of the two Governments, to re-engage on the urgent task of forming a new Executive and taking forward the implementation of outstanding commitments from previous agreements. It is critically important to see devolved government restored and working effectively in the interests of the people of Northern Ireland, in particular in the context of Brexit. As a co-guarantor of the Good Friday Agreement, the Government is determined to uphold its principles and protect its institutions. We will continue to work to this end with the British Government to support and facilitate the parties in their efforts to reach agreement.
In reply to Deputy Adams's opening question, I note that the date for the inquest in respect of the ten civilians killed in Ballymurphy is September of next year. I commend everyone who was so committed through their tragedy to seeing that a date would be fixed for the commencement of an inquest. The Dáil adopted an all-party motion in 2015 in support of the Ballymurphy families who continue to seek an effective inquiry into the incident in which those 11 people died. It is one of the 56 legacy inquest cases from the Troubles which are still waiting to proceed in Northern Ireland and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Charles Flanagan, continues to raise the matter. I hope that in the new situation here and given the fact that we had Fresh Start in Stormont, I genuinely believe that contains the opportunity in its own way to deal with these legacy issues, sensitive and raw though they may be and will be when these things come to light. The timely holding of inquests is an effective part of the right to life as set out in Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. At least, a commencement date has been fixed and is known, which is an important element. In reply to Deputy Howlin, he knows what the options are. Either there is an election-----
-----direct rule, or an Executive is formed. I hope the parties will now focus on the fact that they will be sitting down again a day or two after the result of a British general election in which it is estimated the Prime Minister will receive a very much enhanced majority over the one delivered in the last election. For that to happen, the parties have to want it to happen. That means, in particular, that the DUP and Sinn Féin must have a belief that they can put an Executive together. Of course, there are different political opinions and differences of emphasis in a whole range of areas, but that is no reason the parties cannot create an Executive to look at the question of distribution of finances for people to get on about their business. There is the whole issue of Brexit here, as well as those of the agrisector, trade unions and businesses. The people from Northern Ireland who voiced their opinions at the all-island civic forum on two occasions must be represented. They need an Executive to add to the voice of Government here in dealing with the outcome of Brexit when the negotiations start. I hope the two main parties will decide, irrespective of the differences they have, that it is imperative to put an Executive in place. I hope, and I have to believe, that will happen before the end of June.
Deputy Martin raised a very important point about the very good relations, with a few notable exceptions, between Ireland and Downing Street. Those have been very strong in the last number of years. I must note, also, that there is regular engagement at the very highest official level between here and Downing Street on all of these issues. I am sorry the Executive was collapsed and that a replacement was not created. Irrespective of how good or strong it was, it is better to have one than not. The only other options for the Secretary of State are to have more elections or to have direct rule.The Executive is the best option of those. As I said to Deputy Howlin, if the DUP and Sinn Féin do not want to have an Executive then it cannot be formed. They have got to accept their political responsibility. They are elected to an Assembly, the purpose of which under the Good Friday Agreement is to have an Executive to direct affairs for Northern Ireland. As the Deputy knows, this means the North-South Ministerial Council, all of the different councils that can come from it, the issues that will arise because of cross-Border organisations and the administration that entails. Look at Brexit now. We will have to deal with the road to Derry and other cross-Border activities. The Government has opened a European Investment Bank office with a view to having major infrastructural projects which have streams of income to pay off those loans. That will involve, if we want to operate on a cross-Border basis, consultation with somebody. I would prefer to have an Executive of whatever shape or form that at least we could engage with properly and formally. Deputy Martin raises a central issue here. The Executive is gone. It was collapsed and has not been restored. I hope in the two or three days after the British election that Deputy Adams will instruct his leader in the North, Ms O'Neill, and the DUP to get together, as these two parties are in a position to form an Executive in the interests of the peoples of Northern Ireland. The answer to Deputy Burton's question is "Yes". We must have opportunities for engagement, as Deputy Martin pointed out, at official level but also at bilateral level. There will be issues that will have to be teased out, as the Deputy well knows from long experience. Ireland will be with the EU 26 in the formal negotiations being conducted by Michelle Barnier. In the course of the discussions there will, of course, be issues that arise that are best understood by the British and Irish because we have been dealing with them for very many years, and we will have to have the opportunity to engage bilaterally. Mr. Barnier will understand this as a complement or as a supplement to the formal negotiations he will lead on behalf of the European Union. The Deputy is right when she says there will be issues that will arise that may be specific and complicated and that will need to be teased out to arrive at a compromise between the Irish and English, so the answer to the question is "Yes".
I propose to take Questions Nos. 9 to 12, inclusive, together. As I outlined last week in my statement to the House, I attended the meeting of the European Council on 29 April. This was the first meeting since Prime Minister May formally notified the European Union of the UK's intention to leave, thereby triggering Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, and it was, therefore, a meeting of the 27 remaining member states. We adopted the EU negotiating guidelines, and had a broad-ranging discussion about the process ahead. Presidents Tusk and Juncker also outlined the process and timelines around the relocation of the two EU agencies currently located in the UK. I was pleased with the outcome of the meeting, including the overall EU approach to the withdrawal negotiations, and the acknowledgement of the need to address Ireland's unique concerns, as set out in the guidelines. I was also very pleased with the declaration which was agreed by the European Council, which provides reassurance that no provision of the Good Friday Agreement, including the provision relating to unity, will be undermined by the UK departure from the EU. It was by no means a given that Ireland’s position would be seen as a priority for the negotiations but, thanks to our strategic, persistent and patient work, and the understanding and support of our European partners, Ireland's specific concerns were fully acknowledged in the guidelines. Supporting and protecting the achievements, benefits and commitments of the peace process; avoiding a hard border; and protecting the common travel area will now be addressed as priorities in the exit negotiations. There was no discussion about the future of the EU at this April meeting of the European Council, but it has been considered and discussed at a number of meetings, including informal meetings of the European Council in Bratislava, in Brussels, in Malta and in Rome. In my discussions at these meetings, in my bilateral engagements with EU counterparts, and here in the House, I have consistently emphasised the need for the EU to focus on delivering for its citizens in areas where it can add real value. I have cautioned against pursuing deeper integration at this time and have instead recommended that we focus on where the EU is most effective, for example, in relation to the Single Market, the digital single market, jobs, growth and investment. I did not have any bilateral meetings at the European Council on 29 April, although I did of course engage with my counterparts at the meeting and informally on the margins.
We have been consistent on that. The European agenda should not stop with Brexit. It has to go beyond that and the completion of the digital Single Market, capital markets and the EMU, is the agenda for the creation of millions of jobs both in Europe and beyond. That agenda is in place and has been followed, although not to completion because it contains a number of challenges that need to be dealt with. We participate very strongly on that and as the Deputy knows, the last Eurobarometer poll showed that 88% of Irish people supported the concept of European membership and Ireland continuing to be a member of the European Union. That is where we stay. I was glad to see the election of a French President who is clearly very much in favour of the continuation of the European Union because if that election had gone wrong and Marine Le Pen had been elected as President, withdrawing from the euro and from the European Union and dealing with the closing of borders would have created a fundamental collapse of the European Union itself. There is a retrenchment here in terms of what the European Union actually means now and I have to say that for the first time since I began to attend European Council meetings, and the first meeting was in Malta, people began to realise just what was at stake. Do they want to hold on to a European Union and a Single Market or do they not? The point made by Mr. Barnier last week was that it comes to a point where people begin to say, "You have got 400 million or 500 million in a Single Market, freedom of movement of people, capital, services and all of that and do you want to throw it away for the sake of hundreds of thousands of jobs in small businesses?" Obviously, that is not the case. We are very strongly in favour of the European Union and no other country, with respect to them, has the same solidarity as we have here because as the Leas Cheann-Comhairle will recall, in the middle of the recession we had to have a referendum on the fiscal stability treaty, which Deputy Howlin raised last week in terms of the fiscal rules. The people here could have given the Government a real kicking at the time but they decided that their place was with the euro, the eurozone and the European Union and they voted 60-40 in favour of that. Nobody here is in favour of treaties but sometimes if sovereignty is transferred in part to the European Union the Attorney General of the day makes a recommendation on whether a referendum is required. Mr. Barnier pointed out last week that if we have a situation where Britain withdraws from the Union and there is a €12 billion hole in the budget every year, the countries that are paying do not want to pay any more while the countries that are receiving do not want to receive any less, so what do we do? Do we force countries to pay more or do we force countries to cut programmes? We can imagine what could happen in a country like Ireland with the CAP and all the different schemes available for farmers, from the uplands down to the lowlands and the tillage schemes. I agree with Deputy Howlin because I believe there will be more emphasis on social Europe in the time ahead but we cannot have these ghettos or  Deputy Haughey raised the Franco-German relationship. I believe that will be very strong. Clearly, two big countries with big economies will get their way in the vast majority of cases and therefore relationships between small countries and the likes of France and Germany will be of particular importance. It was always my view that the European Union thrived when big countries worked with small countries in the interests of everybody. If we are all equal as citizens in the European Union and if everybody is to have the same opportunity, small countries need that opportunity. Deputy Haughey is right that there will be a cementing of that relationship and in that sense we will have to face change, but we should face it with courage. It does not always mean that there will be treaties but we should never be afraid to talk about the issues on the table because we might find we have many allies in small countries who would say this would not be in anybody's interest.
I am pleased to address the Houses today in the presence of Michel Barnier. Thank you for your fine contribution, Michel. I thank him for his statement in which he outlined the complexities of the Brexit negotiations and for his acknowledgement of their importance for Europe and of course for Ireland. Michel Barnier is a long-standing friend of this country, not just as a leading French politician and Minister, but also as a European Commissioner. Indeed, his time as Commissioner for Regional Policy gave him a particular insight into the unique circumstances on the island of Ireland, which will be central to the talks ahead. I also want to thank him sincerely for his willingness to engage with Ireland since his appointment as head of the Commission Brexit task force last July. This is his second visit to Dublin since that appointment but we have also met on other occasions, including on my visits to Brussels in February and March, and at the European Council. Michel and his colleagues in the Brexit task force have been more than co-operative and accessible to our Ministers and senior officials. I know that he has also been open to a range of other important stakeholders from Ireland. I thank him for this engagement. The challenges for this country arising from Brexit are extremely serious; and it is essential that all those affected have the opportunity to make their voices heard. This has also been the approach of the Government here. Along with ongoing sectoral analysis across Departments, we have engaged widely with industry and civic society, holding almost 280 separate meetings. The all-island civic dialogue, which I convened with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Flanagan, has included 16 sectoral events and two plenary meetings, with more than 1,200 delegates representing industries and organisations from across the country. This kind of consultation has informed our positions on the negotiations, and enabled us to publish our thinking in a comprehensive Government document last week. Events have moved on quickly since Prime Minister May formally notified the European Union of the UK's intention to leave. The European Council agreed the EU negotiating guidelines on 29 April and on 3 May, the European Commission proposed its draft negotiating directives, which build on the guidelines and provide more detail on the issues to be addressed. The extensive preparation by member states, the EU institutions and Mr. Barnier's task force meant that the guidelines were agreed very quickly. This was by no means a given. We know just how complicated and serious the issues are for Europe as a whole and particularly for Ireland. For over two years, the Government has been analysing the issues and engaging with sectors across this island to identify our main areas of concern and to develop our priorities. Some of these have been referred to here by Michel Barnier. These are the protection of the Good Friday Agreement and the peace process, including by avoiding a hard Border; to retain the common travel area; to minimise the impact on our economy and to work for a positive future for the European Union. We have also been extremely active at political and official level in engaging with our EU partners and the EU institutions, with a view to highlighting and explaining the significant implications for Ireland arising from Brexit, and the need to take account of our particular concerns in the negotiations ahead. Indeed, since the UK referendum last June, we have had over 400 engagements on Brexit with our EU partners. In all these meetings, we have explained the background and context of the Northern Ireland peace process and emphasised the need to avoid the re-imposition of a hard Border on the island of Ireland. As I have stated previously, this is a political challenge and we will have to be both flexible and imaginative to deal with it. Thanks to this strategic and patient work, and the understanding and support of our European partners, I am pleased that Ireland's specific concerns - Mr. Barnier has mentioned this specifically - and the unique circumstances that apply here are fully acknowledged in these guidelines. Supporting and protecting the achievements, the benefits and commitments of the peace process, avoiding a hard Border and protecting the common travel area will now be addressed as part of the withdrawal negotiations. The guidelines provide an excellent basis for the negotiations. It was crucial that we got this right from the start and again, I would like to thank Mr. Barnier for his role in making that happen. In more general terms, we are pleased with the tone of the guidelines, which is open and constructive, while nevertheless clearly and firmly outlining the EU's objectives and principles. They highlight the importance of getting clarity in respect of EU citizens' rights, a key issue across member states and important in terms of providing certainty for people and for families. The approach to the sensitive question of the United Kingdom's financial liabilities is also welcome. It is only reasonable that the United Kingdom be asked to honour the commitments it entered into as a member state of the European Union. Mr. Barnier's approach to this is sensible: to focus first on the principles and methodology before considering the numbers or the structure of payments that might be involved. Importantly from our perspective, the guidelines acknowledge the need for transitional arrangements. This will be crucial in order to provide a level of continuity and certainty for our citizens and businesses. As Ireland stands to be more affected than any other member state by the departure of the UK, we believe it is necessary to begin work as soon as possible - and I am glad you referred to this - on scoping out the future EU-UK relationship. I am pleased therefore that the guidelines acknowledge that the shape of the future relationship can be considered once the European Council, that is, the Heads of State and Government of the 27 member states, agrees that "sufficient progress" has been made on the withdrawal issues. This phased approach is also a sensible and pragmatic way forward. From Ireland's perspective, our objective is for a close and positive future relationship with the UK, and we are pleased therefore that the guidelines indicate the EU wants an ambitious agreement, not just in economic terms but also in areas such as security. We will continue to work with partners to achieve such an outcome. Consequently, I welcome the European Council guidelines from a substantive perspective and that their principles and approach have been carried forward into the draft negotiating directives. I appreciate the thorough preparatory work carried out by Mr. Barnier and his task force, as well as the European Council team and other EU partners, whose willingness to listen to us, to listen to our story and to acknowledge our unique and special circumstances has brought us to this point. The outcome is an endorsement of the approach by Government and a clear recognition of the specific challenges we face. The Government has robustly defended the Good Friday Agreement process throughout these negotiations so far, making clear that, as a legally binding international treaty, it provides a unique political and constitutional framework on the island of Ireland. We know that it was vital to provide reassurance that Brexit does not in any way undermine any provision of the Good Friday Agreement.In that context, we secured an acknowledgement that, in the event of change in the constitutional status of Northern Ireland, brought about in accordance with the principles of the Good Friday Agreement and the principle of consent, the entire territory of such a united Ireland would be part of the EU. I have been consistent in my view that now is not the time to have such a referendum on Irish unity and that the conditions set out in the Good Friday Agreement for the calling of a Border poll do not currently exist. However, the statement agreed by the Heads of State and Government of the 27 EU member states, which will be recorded in the minutes of the European Council, was hugely important in order to dispel any doubt or uncertainty that the UK exit from the EU would negatively impact on this crucial constitutional provision of the Good Friday Agreement. With the EU guidelines now adopted, including the language about our unique concerns, the Government last week published a comprehensive document which reflects the findings of our extensive preparatory work and consultations on the island of Ireland and at EU level, and outlines the positions and priorities that will underpin our engagement in the Brexit process over the next two years. At EU level, the more detailed draft negotiating directives are now being discussed at ministerial and official level with a view to agreement at the General Affairs Council on 22 May. These are again broadly positive from Ireland’s point of view. Mr. Barnier and his team have shown that, in addition to being open to meet with us, they are also listening very closely to what we have to say, which is why I welcome the Ceann Comhairle's decision today. This is vitally important if the negotiations are to proceed in a calm and ordered way, and end up at a point which is as good as possible for all sides. As I said in my statement to the Dáil on Tuesday, it became very clear at an early stage of our analysis that the economic impacts of Brexit would be severe. With the EU guidelines now adopted and work under way on the directives, the Government will intensify its focus on the economic implications of Brexit, including on domestic policy measures to protect it from the potential negative impacts of Brexit, to reinforce the competitiveness of the Irish economy, which is so important, and also to pursue all opportunities that might arise. In this context, I should also mention Ireland will bid, along with other countries, for the two EU bodies currently located in London - the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority. I believe that Ireland offers an excellent opportunity as a location for these. As I have said before, and in conclusion, Brexit is a British policy. It is not an Irish policy and it is not an EU policy. For its part, Ireland remains committed clearly to the European Union and its future. Indeed, a poll published on Europe Day this week showed that 88% of Irish people agree that Ireland should remain a member of the European Union. Participation and membership have transformed our country, as Mr. Barnier is well aware, over the last 40 years. We are committed to playing a strong and active role as a member of the EU 27. We are well prepared and will continue to ensure that our concerns and priorities are reflected in the European Union negotiating position as it evolves, and that we work closely with our EU partners, the EU institutions and Mr. Barnier and his task force, towards a strong and constructive future relationship with the United Kingdom.
The first point Deputy Micheál Martin makes is important. I agree it is critical that the public and the Government have absolute faith and trust in the Garda Síochána and, clearly, that has been a matter in respect of which there has been pressure for quite some time. I have faith and every confidence in the Garda Commissioner to do her job. I must point out to the Deputy that the issues here are being examined by the Committee of Public Accounts, the Policing Authority and the Comptroller and Auditor General. It is appropriate that the work under way in that process should be able to be completed. I would further point out that the work initiated here relates to a period quite a number of years ago. Action was taken by the Commissioner - when it was brought to her attention - in order that these matters would be dealt with conclusively. The Committee of Public Accounts is to meet again on 13 July. As I understand it, the Garda Commissioner will attend again at the committee to give evidence. When the information was brought to the attention of the Minister, she sent it to the Policing Authority. The Deputy will be aware that the report contains recommendations which must be overseen by the Policing Authority. Obviously, the authority acts completely independently of both the Commissioner and the Government. I note that earlier today it made another appointment of an assistant commissioner in accordance with the new method of making senior appointments to the Garda. Section 41 of the Garda Síochána Act enables the Commissioner of the day to send notices to the Minister for Justice and Equality. That is a matter of judgment for the Garda Commissioner. Clearly, this process has not been completed and needs to be dealt with so that all of the evidence and facts can not only be ascertained but also judged. For that reason, the reform that is under way is quite extensive. The Deputy will be aware of the enhanced powers being sought in respect of GSOC, the Garda Inspectorate report, the independent Policing Authority and now the appointment of a commission to examine the structure of the Garda in the context of the way it is run and the mechanics of how it does its business. The commission will not be examining the qualities of any individual personality within the ranks of An Garda Síochána but will be looking at the structure overall so that the force can be seen to be professional and competent in terms of how it does its job in the interests of the people of the country, as one would expect. The Government retains confidence in the Garda Commissioner. Obviously, in my view, it would be a mistake to personalise issues in respect of the new commission looking at the structure and the culture of the Garda. It is not about that. The work is under way by the Committee of Public Accounts, the Policing Authority and the Comptroller and Auditor General. They should be entitled to finish their work and report on it.
The latest revelations are part of a very extensive report produced by a very competent civilian. The report is now before the Committee of Public Accounts. I am quite sure Deputy Micheál Martin, with his long experience in here, realises the importance of the committee and the independent way it is entitled to do its business. The Minister has sent the information to the Policing Authority because there are recommendations that must be overseen by it, and that independent body will see that this happens. Deputy Martin stated I do not seem to get it. The situation is that this work is under way. The Comptroller and Auditor General is examining the issue and the Committee of Public Accounts is examining it. The Policing Authority will do its job in terms of monitoring and oversight of what is involved. The Minister for Justice and Equality has been here on so many occasions about issues relating to the Garda-----
-----and that is why the reforms the Government has put in place will deal with the nature, culture and structure of what has evolved in the Garda Síochána for so many years. As the leader of Fianna Fáil, Deputy Martin knows that over many years this culture has moved to a point where it is no longer acceptable and that is why this Commissioner is taking action in accordance with Government requirements to ensure that those matters are sorted out.
That is why the new commission to look at the structure, professionalism and competency of how the Garda is run is important in terms not of personalities but of that structure.
I do get it, but I think it is important that the Committee of Public Accounts is able to do its job.
The Minister has no problem coming in here-----
-----to answer questions about matters relevant to the Department of Justice and Equality but there is no point in jumping to conclusions before allowing the agencies and committees that are vested with the authority to report to do so.
Deputy Adams made a point about the leadership of An Garda Síochána under Commissioner O'Sullivan. These events took place quite a number of years ago and is it not only right and proper that we should find out the truth and facts about them? That is why the Committee of Public Accounts is investigating this matter and looking at it. That is why the Policing Authority will oversee the recommendations of the information that is being sent to it. Remember that it was Commissioner O'Sullivan who acted on this. She is the first Commissioner since these events happened to take action. She is the Commissioner  Mr. Barrett has obviously written his report in great detail and it is right for it to be examined by the Committee of Public Accounts. That committee, which is charged with examining this matter, is entitled to produce its report and findings in the same way as it produced a detailed report on Project Eagle, out of which has come a decision by the Government to have a commission of investigation. The Garda Commissioner, 
The Policing Authority will make its findings in respect of the oversight there. The Minister for Justice and Equality has no problem in attending the House and has done so on many occasions in recent years, dealing with controversies in the Garda Síochána. These are matters that have to be dealt with and will be dealt with. I would like to see the Committee of Public Accounts meeting on 13 July being able to do its job. That is what it was set up for, in part. I would like to think they will have the Garda Commissioner there to answer the charges the Deputy is making here in respect of differences between what Mr. Barrett says in is report and the evidence the Commissioner gave at the Committee of Public Accounts.
It seems that Deputy Adams wants to continually tick boxes and ask for another head on another plate. Does he not think that it is appropriate that the most influential committee of this House, the Committee of Public Accounts, be allowed to do its job? On occasions in the past, people associated with the Deputy's party have been the subject of television programmes on a variety of issues, but nothing was ever wrong there. All is not well here. Neither I nor anybody else can stand over a situation where the issues that have been raised are not identified and dealt with factually and in full. If money was shifted or misappropriated------
-----or money was diverted, as we now have some evidence of having happened in Templemore-----
-----it was this Commissioner who took action to find out what exactly had happened.
That is why it is necessary for the Committee of Public Accounts to be allowed to do its job, finish its report and present it to the House. The Minister for Justice and Equality will have no difficulty in coming before the House, as necessary-----
-----as she does for Questions to the Tánaiste and Questions to the Minister for Justice and Equality, to give an account of her stewardship of her Department in this matter.
I say again to the Deputy that the terms of reference set out for the commission's analysis of root-and-branch activities include: the structure and management arrangements apply for An Garda Síochána; the appropriate composition, recruitment and training of the men and women who serve in An Garda Síochána; the culture and the ethos of policing; the appropriate structures for oversight and accountability; and the legislative framework for policing. That is the focus of the new commission, in order that we can all be happy that, over a period, the Garda force will have the trust, confidence, professionalism and wherewithal to do its job as the people of the county would expect.
This is a matter that needs to be dealt with and is being dealt with. I hope the Deputy agrees that the Committee of Public Accounts and the other oversight bodies should be allowed to do their work.
The attack on Jimmy Campion at the age of 94 in Roscrea, County Tipperary and his wife, Maura, who is aged 87, was an attack of cowardice and wanton brutality. I do not know who the people who broke into that house are, the condition they were in or the state of their minds, but to do that to an elderly person is unforgivable in so many ways. Unfortunately, it is not the first time it has happened and probably will not be the last. I hope Mr. Campion is making a recovery. I note the reports of the walking stick being broken and the effect this is having on his wife, Maura, with the post-traumatic stress caused by people entering a house and beating up a man in his senior years. I saw his neighbour and colleague on television saying that he was a gentleman of the first type against whom he had played hurling so many years ago. They would not have attempted to break into the house if he had been in his younger years as a hurler. I share the Deputy's view on this matter. It is a fact of life that we have made serious attempts to involve communities through the text alert system and Macra na Tuaithe where communities are advised to be in contact with the Garda and Garda stations when unusual happenings and these type of suspicious movements take place. The TheftStop partnership with the IFA aims to deal with the stealing of livestock and machinery. As the Deputy is aware, efforts are under way to deal with this through various technological chips and so on to prevent machinery being stolen and to ensure that if it is stolen, people will know where it is. A total of 75% of burglaries are committed by about 25% of these people. Some of those involved are professional gangs. Operation Thor, which has been funded by the Minister for Justice and Equality and the Government, has put a stop to a great deal of that because many of those professional gangs who leave particular areas to travel throughout the country in high-speed cars have had their run ended. I hope the local gardaí in Roscrea are able to apprehend these people. It will be for the courts to punish them. The Deputy made a very clear case about how he feels they should be punished. It is simply unforgivable that a man and his wife in the comfort of their own home who expect they will be able to live their lives in peace and tranquility should have that breached by thugs who enter a house for no other reason than to beat someone up and rob money. I hope the local gardaí find these people, that they are brought before the courts and that the judge on the bench will deal with them.
This case has been raised by many Deputies. The Criminal Justice (Burglary of Dwellings) Act 2015 was targeted at burglars with previous convictions and who are charged with multiple residential break-ins. That Act requires that the courts provide for consecutive jail sentences when a burglar is being sentenced for multiple offences. It also allows courts to refuse bail to offenders who have a previous conviction for domestic burglary. This case involves an aggravated situation where the burglars beat up an elderly man. The criminal justice forensic evidence and DNA database system was commenced a year ago and introduced the DNA database, which provides the Garda with investigative links between people and unsolved crimes, including burglary. The Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality, Deputy Fitzgerald, this morning turned the sod on a new forensic laboratory in County Kildare, which will cost over €30 million. Deputy Michael Healy-Rae should not underestimate the impact of Operation Thor, which began in November 2015 at a time of straitened public finances. It led to a sharp decline in the national rate of burglary, which has been reflected in successive statistics published by the CSO. The full year figures for 2016 are the most recent available. They indicate a 30% reduction in burglary over that 12-month period.  That does not excuse what happened to the Campion couple in Roscrea. I hope that the Garda is able to apprehend the perpetrators and that they are brought before a court to be dealt with by a judge. The Deputy’s point is valid. Whether they be urban, semi-rural or what one might call really rural, communities need to be on the alert. Facilities such as the text alert scheme and so on are available that allow suspicious vehicles or people acting suspiciously to be reported in the hope that issues such as this one will not arise again or at least will be reduced. Should an incident unfortunately occur, those facilities will mean that the perpetrators can be apprehended.  I hope that Jimmy Campion makes a full recovery. I hope that the condition of his wife, Maura, improves and that they will be allowed to live their lives as a long-married couple in the peace and tranquillity of their home, which they have known for a very long time.
Deputy Eamon Ryan has been talking about change recently. He stated that he wants to become quite promiscuous - from a party point of view of course - and that he is quite prepared to jump into bed with any other political party in order to be back in government. The Deputy was in government and he had some very good ideas, many of which were not followed through.
I share Deputy Eamon Ryan's enthusiasm for dealing with climate change and where we stand in that respect. Ireland's profile is the same as that of New Zealand and it is very different from most other countries. Ireland is the most carbon-efficient producer of milk in the world and the fifth most efficient producer of beef in Europe. If milk quotas go and Ireland is in a position to double the national herd-----
-----then there is an issue in respect of being able to protect our farmers and deal with natural emissions of methane gas. The Deputy will be aware that climate change is one of the key environmental issues globally, not just in Ireland. In the context of the scale of transformation, there is a real challenge for the State to meet its targets between 2020 and 2030. It is not a case of being ambitious enough; it is a case of having letting this slip in Tokyo in the first instance, where our profile - for what it was - was not recognised. It should have been the case of building the ambition on top of that and of not in making the target completely unreachable. The extent of the challenge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line our EU and international commitments - including the Paris Agreement - is well understood by Government. The best technical minds are working on this to see how we can be ambitious between 2020 and 2030 and meet with our requirements in that regard. These are reflected in the 2014 national policy position on climate action and low-carbon development, which is underpinned by the Climate Action and Low Carbon Development Act 2015. The national policy and the 2015 Act provide the high-level policy and statutory direction for the adoption and implementation of successive national mitigation plans. The Deputy spoke of building the greenway from Athlone to Galway. Does he not appreciate the difficulties that arise when one tries to do something like that? It is now virtually impossible to make any move in this country without taking into account the litigious nature of people. This presents difficulties and, under the law of the land, there are opportunities for people to object to everything. It is not possible to walk in on farmer X or farmer Y and say that we are suddenly putting in place compulsory purchase orders in respect of their land in order that we might put in place a greenway to allow people to pass through. There must be a process of consultation and discussion in the same way that I hope Ministers will be able to bring forward the regulations relating to wind turbines in the next weeks. We have had this debate for quite some time, including around carbon emissions, diesel emissions and the fraudulent activity of a number of motoring companies that have resulted in fines which are exceptionally high.The measures include the emissions trading scheme; the carbon tax; the renewable electricity support schemes; the renewable energy prototype development funding; financial supports through the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland, SEAI, large industry energy network and the small to medium enterprises support schemes; social housing energy efficiency upgrades; the near zero energy building standards; the building energy rating certificates; the public sector energy efficiency strategy; public transport investments and smarter travel initiatives; tax and financial incentives for low-emission vehicles; biofuels obligation schemes; the Rural Development Programme; and the forestry programme. These are all areas in which Ireland is working intensively to meet its targets and live up to its requirements.
The Deputy's banking crisis killed it.
We are going to work harder and are working very hard. Another Private Members' Bill was introduced by Deputy Pringle, seeking to amend the National Treasury Management Agency (Amendment) Act 2014. It seeks to instruct the NTMA to divest the Ireland Strategic Investment Fund from its fossil fuel assets within five years of the Act's commencement. The Bill's intention is that this timeline will assist in the orderly management of Ireland's climate change commitments on decarbonisation under article 2 of the Paris Agreement. That debate took place on 19 January. The Government tabled a reasoned amendment which was put to a vote on 26 January and defeated. The Bill has now been referred to the Select Committee on Finance, Public Expenditure and Reform, and Taoiseach.
It is fine for Deputy Ryan to come in and tell me to do all of these things. We have opened a European Investment Bank office in Dublin for major projects. Maybe the Deputy has forgotten the time he was in government. It is not as easy as he thinks to put in his interconnector-----
-----to put up his wind farms and solar panels, or put in his greenways.
These are all wonderful aspirations but if the Deputy visited the communities he would find a very different reaction from his nice perception of people saying we will all be energy and fuel efficient and we will all have emissions control and we will have a lovely country.
It took 16 years to bring the gas pipeline in from the Corrib field and there were legitimate reasons for that as it went through one court case after another. The gas is now flowing. I support the Deputy in so many ways. We have to become more understanding of what climate change and climate action actually mean. It is the overriding requirement not just for Ireland but for the planet. It is perfectly evident now from the storms, hurricanes, cyclones, increased flooding, icebergs off the Antarctic, the way the Northwest Passage in the Arctic is now open summer after summer, that the world is changing. With the heating of the Atlantic, if the temperature goes up another half degree the entire salmon stock will move 1,000 miles north. These are all massive challenges that have to be met. Ireland will play its part but it cannot happen overnight. The chance might come for Deputy Ryan again sometime to play his part in government. One never knows.
I will have a look at that. Malignant melanoma is a horrible ailment when it strikes people. The point Deputy Martin makes is one that will be considered. I will come back to him on that.
A great deal of activity is going on all the time on this. I do not have the detailed information that Deputy Adams has requested before me in respect of the particular Act, but I will respond to him.
That is not for me to direct, as Deputy Howlin is well aware. There are opportunities for Deputies in the House to table questions. If they are approved by the Ceann Comhairle, then that can happen. The Tánaiste does not have all the details. The Tánaiste referred the report that she got to the Policing Authority. The report from Mr. Barrett is now before the Committee of Public Accounts. It will remain the position that the Tánaiste can report factually on the information she has, but that is not the conclusion. We should not be jumping to conclusions here, as Deputy Howlin is well aware. At the end of the day, the Committee of Public Accounts should be allowed to do its job. There are competent people on that committee and they will follow right through.
The Tánaiste has no difficulty in answering questions, but she cannot give the Deputy the outcome of the report of the Committee of Public Accounts.
It is not for me to direct any Minister to come to the House on any day. Deputy Howlin has the right, as a Deputy, to put a question before the House or to the Ceann Comhairle in this regard, as he is well aware given his long years of experience.
I explained this before. It is possible to ratify the convention, but then we have to introduce the legislation. We have always taken the view to go the other way, which is to put the legislation in place first and then ratify the convention, as it means something. It was necessary to go through a suite of legislation and quite a number of Bills were dealt with. As the Deputy pointed out, this Bill, which is part of the suite that is being processed, is on Committee Stage. To my recollection, there is a number of amendments to others that must be gone through. The Minister of State, Deputy Finian McGrath, is adamant about this and has raised it at Cabinet on numerous occasions. However, this is a combination of the parliamentary office, the nature of the business of the House and the rights of Deputies to discuss these things at committees and through-----
The answer to the Deputy's question is that we have not ratified the convention because we want to put the legislation through first-----
-----rather than do what other countries do, which is to ratify it and state that they have ratified it but to have no legislation to back it up.
I will ask the Minister for Education and Skills, Deputy Bruton, to deal with the question.
I had a briefing recently with the Garda Commissioner and the national security group. These matters are constantly monitored. It is not information that should be given out publicly. Let me assure the Deputy that the Garda is vigilant in this matter. The Deputy will note the action taken in the past few days to deal with claims of activities of certain people. He will also be aware that the Government provided funds and facilities for special armed units of the Garda to deal with activities, if that be so, of particular groups. This matter is under constant review. Airport police are employed in airports and the Garda is in constant touch about keeping our airports secure. The Deputy will appreciate that, unfortunately and tragically, what happened in France, Paris, Belgium and Berlin were not in all cases occasions brought about by armed terrorists. Conventional vehicles were used to terrorise people, most recently again in Sweden. This is a case of communities being vigilant and our Garda being vigilant, which it is.
It is not a false promise, but I cannot give Deputy Doherty a date as to when the court will be set up. The legal advice is that there may be some constitutional difficulties with the way it has been proposed. I will advise Deputy Doherty on the progress being made to deal with the matter.
I am not aware of the number of farmers in west Cork who are out of pocket, nor am I aware of what the problem is. Is it on the application side or the delivery side from the Department? If Deputy Murphy O'Mahony would like to give me the details, we could have them followed up for her. In any event, I will have the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine respond to her.
I ask the Minister, Deputy Bruton, to respond to Deputy Cahill.
I do not accept at all the Deputy's charge of indifference or lack of action. There has never been more action, more focus or more priority attached to the housing problem. The real issue is supply. I read out for Deputy Adams the other day a list of sites in County Louth where construction is under way or about to get under way. The Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, Deputy Coveney-----
-----has made an issue specifically of rent and rent increases. The figures published show a decline in the rate of increase in rents in the Dublin area. Yes, in the greater Dublin area there has been an increase. It is all about supply, though, which is why more money than ever before-----
-----more incentive than ever before, more opportunity for local authorities and private developers, the purchase of sites, the housing assistance payment, HAP, scheme and the rent pressure zones-----
-----were all introduced after discussion here. However, the real problem is the supply of houses. I remind Deputy Munster again that in the so-called boom years we were building 90,000 houses a year, a rate of building that collapsed to fewer than 9,000 per year.That must be rebuilt, which does not happen overnight. 
This is not about legislation but about terms of reference. The North East Pylon Pressure Group has been around for some time and I have met members of the group over the years. This is a matter Deputy Eamon Ryan spoke about. I will have the Minister look at the request Deputy Cassells makes regarding the terms of reference.
I am not sure whether the Deputy is referring to the quality of diesel or interference with diesel, which is a serious issue that has been under investigation for many years. I will have the Minister reflect on the Deputy's comments. Motorists and consumers have at their disposal instantaneous communications about where cheaper prices apply at filling stations. I will have the Minister respond to the Deputy on the question he asked.
I will have a discussion with the Minister for Health on the matter raised by Deputy MacSharry.
The Minister is well able to answer the Deputy's question so I will ask her to do so.
I am sorry. I may have misunderstood the first question, Deputy. I will follow that up with the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine in respect of the vote in the Dáil and the proposition to put together a tillage fund for those who are so affected.
I agree with the Ceann Comhairle. Obviously, if there is a scheme in place, people should not be expected to have to wait. I am quite sure that the Minister, Deputy Varadkar, is acutely aware of this now and will deal with the matter. Obviously, he did introduce the paternity benefits. This is always a time, by and large in the vast majority of cases, of great excitement in a family home. Obviously, to have a scheme, one would expect it to work, so I will discuss that with the Minister and make sure that the facilities are there to pay mothers quickly in respect of their newly-born children.
The first thing that has to happen is that, as I hope, these burglars are apprehended and brought before the court. As the Deputy is aware, the facility exists in law at the moment to provide for tagging but, obviously, the punishment meted out for this particularly savage, aggressive burglary is one for the judge and the court to decide.
I hope everybody co-operates and that gardaí can apprehend them as quickly as possible and bring them before the court where justice can be meted out.
These are a wonderful success but it has been a bit haphazard. Money has been allocated to some schemes that have not been able to be moved because of objections and so on. Yesterday evening, I had a meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee dealing with rural affairs and development. One of the decisions is that we should co-ordinate under the different Ministries a small sub-committee to put together the map of where these can apply, be they blueways, greenways, old railway lines, Coillte trails or other areas, so money that is allocated can be spent on projects that are ready to go. I look forward to the one on the Grand Canal and I thought it would have been finished by now. I think sections of it have been paved and may be suitable for walking but not yet for cycling. Over a period of five to ten years, we will have the entire country, North and South, as a brilliant opportunity for people to come and walk or run, or use buggies and bicycles. I expect that the co-ordination of the three Ministries should provide a real focus on getting money spent where we can, while hoping to deal with the problems that exist in other cases.
Deputy Coppinger can make her suggestion but it will not be accepted. I expect that this committee will be formed next week. I remind the Deputy that the Citizen's Assembly completed its deliberations but the report has not been furnished and will not be before the end of June. It is important we have the committee in place to receive that report and it can then start its deliberations. Obviously, out of those deliberations, legislation will be required before the Oireachtas in due course. I have no doubt a referendum on whatever is the nature of the question to be asked will have to take place as well.
In respect of disability and respite care, referred to on page 70 of the programme for Government, I will have the Minister of State, Deputy Finian McGrath, respond directly to Deputy Moynihan. Obviously, there is an extensive budget for disability under his remit. I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Flanagan, to deal with the Halawa case, and the Minister for Education and Skills, Deputy Bruton, to deal with the question on modern languages.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 and 2 together. The Cabinet committee on social policy and public service reform last met on 10 April 2017. The next meeting of the committee has been scheduled for 15 May.
First, on the role of the Cabinet sub-committee on social policy and public service reform, it provides a basis for cross-departmental co-ordination in the delivery of the programme for Government in the areas of equality, social policy and social inclusion, including a focus on particularly vulnerable groups and to support continued improvements in the area of public service. I welcome the report from the commission chaired by Mr. Kevin Duffy. The programme for a partnership Government committed the Government to establish a public service pay commission to examine pay levels across the public service and in line with this commitment, the Government agreed in principle in July of last year to establish that independent advisory body to examine public service remuneration and pay rates. The terms of reference were finalised after an open consultation process that was carried out on the role and methodology of the commission and how it should approach this trifold relationship. The terms of reference provided that the commission would be advisory in nature. The Government retains the right to negotiate terms and conditions directly with the employees. For its initial report, the commission was asked to provide inputs on how the unwinding of the financial emergency measures in the public interest, FEMPI, legislation should proceed having regard to particular issues: the evolution of pay trends in the public and private sectors based on published information, a comparison of pay rates for identifiable groups within the public service with prevailing non-public sector market rates, international markers and comparisons where possible and the state of the national finances.
Finally, on this matter, the role of the Government is to strike an appropriate balance between what we pay our public servants to ensure we can attract, train and retain staff and compete in the labour market for those skilled staff who need to provide public services and the primary consideration for any employer, which is the ability to pay its employees. The State is no different from other employers. The process of direct negotiations will begin shortly.
The Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform has stated clearly the value that the State places on its public employees and the work that they have done and the sacrifices that they have made over the past period. The State also must have regard to its legal obligations to unwind the FEMPI measures, which were imposed on public servants during the crisis and significantly reduced their remuneration and pay as a consequence. The commission report reflects those requirements but it makes particular note of the fact that control of the public service pay bill is a central determinant of budgetary policy. It will be a matter for the parties to negotiate a timeframe that will provide for the orderly unwinding of the financial emergency legislation having regard to maintaining sustainable national finances and competitiveness, other Government spending priorities, the public service reform agenda and equality considerations on public service pay. I hope that the Minister will be in a position to commence negotiations quickly following engagement between the civil servants of the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform and the representatives of the unions involved. The Minister is anxious, on behalf of Government, to commence that as quickly as possible and to have an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement. It is in the interests of everybody to have a balance here of affordability, sustainability and fairness, and the Minister has made those points clearly to date.
In respect of the question from Deputy Martin, the committee did not consider the campaign by the Department of Social Protection. On the previous occasion we met we discussed unallocated cases from Tusla, the national women's strategy and single affordable child care, which is an issue that is being dealt with here. This campaign has been launched by the Department of Social Protection itself.
I will check with the Minister for Social Protection on the specific point Deputy Martin raised in respect of fraud or other issues.
I take the Deputy's point.
I will come back to Deputy Martin on it. Deputy Howlin raised an important point. The report sets out a basic bedrock for valuable discussions and it is not for me to predetermine what the Government outcome on it might be. As I understand it, the next step is that officials from what was at one time Deputy Howlin's Department will engage with personnel in the public sector unions and the Minister will start the negotiations as soon as possible for an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement. In respect of pensions, the commission was tasked, first, with assessing the overall value of the public service remuneration package, which includes not only pay but pensions. That was provided for in the terms of reference of the commission. The work undertaken in that regard was both significant and important and I commend Mr. Duffy on his report. The approach of the Government to the issue of public service pensions is based on the fiscal sustainability of providing public service pensioners, current employees and future employees with public service pensions now and into the future. Deputy Howlin made a specific point on that. Both the State and its employees who are public servants have a shared interest in securing the sustainability of the pension system. Reform measures over the years such as integrating the occupational pension with the contributory State pension, extending the minimum retirement date from 60 to 65 and the introduction of a new career single public service pension scheme linked to the Civil Service pensions, CSP, age and the consumer price index, CPI, have contributed to the future sustainability of the public service occupational pension system. However, we know from right across the economy that pensions have become increasingly expensive. The outputs from the commission confirm that and they reflect the values of the pension entitlements for various pension cohorts currently within the public service. The proposal by the commission that any agreed adjustment in pension contributions for public servants in respect of pension benefits should be linked with the discontinuance of the pension related deduction, PRD, imposed by the Financial Emergency Measures in the Public Interest, FEMPI, 2009 Act has been noted. Those are matters which will undoubtedly feature in the proposed public service pay discussions. That is best left for that engagement and interaction to take place. The commission considers that the values identified for those on legacy standard accrual pension schemes and fast accrual schemes should be addressed by providing for an increased employee contribution for those who continue to benefit from such schemes. Rates of contribution are a matter for negotiation. While the commission considers it would be reasonable to apply any agreed adjustments in contributions in conjunction with the discontinuance of the pension related deduction currently imposed on public servants under the FEMPI Act, in the commission's view the value of public service pensions could be reasonably fixed in a range of 12% to 18% over private sector norms for pre-2013 standard-accrual pension schemes but that fast accrual schemes incur greater costs. The point raised by Deputy Howlin is an important one and I expect it will feature centrally in the discussions.
I received the final report of the Fennelly commission on 31 March 2017 and it was published on my Department's website on 6 April 2017. The commission's final report made findings of great concern to the Government and, I am sure, to this House. The commission found that recording and retaining non-999 calls was not authorised by common law or by statute and that An Garda Síochána therefore infringed the constitutional rights of those recorded. The commission also made damning findings about the lack of effective oversight and procedures within An Garda Síochána over a lengthy period and the failure to respond when some technicians and officers raised concerns and questions. However, the commission also found that it is "reasonable to conclude, based on the evidence before it, that no widespread or systematic, indeed probably no significant, misuse of information derived from non-999 recordings took place". The commission also found no evidence of knowledge of the recording of non-999 telephone calls on the part of relevant Ministers for Justice and Equality, the Department of Justice and Equality, or other State agencies. Taken together, the findings of the Fennelly commission reinforce the Government's determination to carry out a fundamental review of the future of policing in Ireland. In April, the Government approved draft terms of reference for a commission on the future of policing in Ireland, and the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality is consulting all parties in the House before those are finalised. The review will look at all functions carried out by An Garda Síochána, including community safety, State security and immigration. It will also consider the full range of bodies that provide oversight and accountability for policing in Ireland. It will take account of the changing nature of crime, society and public expectations; best practice in other countries; previous reports concerning policing in Ireland; and any specific challenges to delivering consistent reform in policing. In addition to this comprehensive reform agenda, the Government has also agreed that the Tánaiste will refer the Fennelly report to the Policing Authority to oversee implementation of its recommendations in the context of its oversight of An Garda Síochána; examine the need for legislation on the recording of calls and related matters on foot of the recommendations of the Fennelly commission; and refer matters in the report relating to the Bailey case to the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, GSOC, to consider whether it believes any further investigation is necessary against the background of the investigation it has been carrying out already into the case.
First, the interim internal audit report in relation to the finances of the Garda College were submitted to the Tánaiste's Department on 27 March this year. That raises serious issues concerning the governance and accountability in the college, which the Tánaiste has stated must be addressed comprehensively and thoroughly. Some of the main issues of concern highlighted by that report include the manner in which the college was run, the existence of a large number of bank accounts and investment accounts linked to the college, staffing issues, and issues relating to the ownership and use of certain lands, the previous 2008 report raising issues in relation to the college, and the non-implementation of its recommendations. The Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts is the Garda Commissioner. The Commissioner has accepted the findings set out in the report and has put in place arrangements to ensure the recommendations are implemented. The Commissioner sent the report to the Committee of Public Accounts as well as to the Comptroller and Auditor General. The Committee of Public Accounts commenced its examination of the report on 4 May and will continue its work on 13 July. The Tánaiste has been assured that the Garda authorities recognise the gravity of the issues raised here and that they are taking active steps to progress the recommendations in the report. External governance expertise and auditors have been engaged. A steering committee, chaired by the chief administrative officer and including a representative from the Tánaiste's Department, is overseeing the implementation of the recommendations. There are several aspects to that implementation of the recommendations that do require further consideration to ensure there is a full understanding of the extent of the issues identified, the implications of the actions required to put the appropriate governance structures and financial and operational processes and procedures in place in the college to address fully the recommendations, and the future development of the Garda College. This work is under way. On receipt of the report and in view of the gravity of the issues raised, the Tánaiste immediately requested the Policing Authority to oversee the implementation of the recommendations and to report back to her on a quarterly basis in relation to the progress being made. The authority intends to submit its first report in July. In the course of the Committee of Public Accounts hearing on 4 May, a discrepancy emerged in the evidence given by the Garda Commissioner and the executive director of human resources and people development, Mr. Barrett, over the length of a discussion in late July during which the executive director raised concerns about the college's finances. The Commissioner recollected what she described as a brief discussion when she and a number of other senior officers were having tea after a long meeting at the college. Mr. Barrett recollected the discussion extending to over two hours.
Mr. Barrett had recorded the start and end times of the discussion in a document that he had prepared in September 2015. In his evidence to the committee he described this document as a minute of the discussion, but on further examination it emerged that it was not a contemporaneous note but rather a document prepared for a different purpose over a month later, which included his recollection of the discussion. In her evidence to the committee, the Commissioner said she was fully briefed on the issues a couple of days after the discussion with Mr. Barrett in July. The discrepancy would appear to be of no significance in so far as the Commissioner's handling of the issues in relation to the college is concerned----- 
-----but does point to some internal division in the senior management team in An Garda Síochána upon which it would not be appropriate for me to comment.
I will have that looked at.
The Commissioner sends material under section 41 to the Minister for Justice and Equality on an occasional basis. I do not know the extent of the referral of section 41s.
I am not sure it is.
The Tánaiste attends on Thursday mornings to deal with Leader's Questions. There are other facilities, as the Deputy knows, for Deputies to put down questions to individual Ministers. I point out to the Deputy again that the Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts 1866 to 1998 is the Garda Commissioner. She has accepted the findings set out in the report and has put in place arrangements to ensure the recommendations are implemented. These activities in Templemore in respect of bank accounts and movements of money do not represent acceptable accountancy. That is why it has to be dealt with by this report. What did the Commissioner do? She sent the report to the Committee of Public Accounts and to the Comptroller and Auditor General. That is what she should have done, and that is what she did. The Committee of Public Accounts commenced its examination of the report on 4 May. What happened at the Committee of Public Accounts? We now have different accounts of a meeting. I do not speak for the Commissioner or for Mr. Barrett. He prepared a report. The information I have says that in his evidence to the committee, he described the document as a minute of the discussion.
On further examination, however, it emerged that it was not a contemporaneous note, but rather a document prepared for a different purpose over a month later.
There is a very serious difference of opinion here.
I do not speak for Mr. Barrett. I have no remit either for Mr. Barrett, or indeed for the Commissioner, in respect of this committee. They are to answer to the committee.
Let me make the point-----
Who sent this report to the PAC? The Garda Commissioner. Why did she do that?
Because she is the Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts 1866 to 1998. She took action by sending the report to the committee and to the Comptroller and Auditor General. She attends at the committee herself. Obviously the committee continues its work and will be in session again on 13 July.
It will have this report and Mr. Barrett's report before it and it will have the Commissioner before it. Is that not the location where both can give their view on the minutes of this meeting, on whether they were made contemporaneously or for a different purpose and on the different recollections of both-----
No, I will be clear on this. The Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality was very clear with An Garda Síochána. The Commissioner herself was very clear on where responsibility lies. It is very easy, as the Deputy well knows, in this age of digital accuracy to determine who made the phone calls to PULSE, when they were made and whether they were true. The work to determine the veracity of this is now under way.
There cannot be a situation where a million tests were purported to be carried out when they were not.
Obviously there is a responsibility to address this.
Both the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality and the Garda Commissioner have stated very clearly where that responsibility lies. We have to define for certain who was responsible down the line for making these decisions-----
-----and making the calls that led to these figures, because the figures do not lie in this case.
The question involved asking me when I received the Fennelly commission report and the actions I took thereafter. That is the question I was asked but we are now in detailed discussion about the meetings that took place and the actions that did or did not happen, as the case may be, in respect of the issues relating to Templemore. I do not have all of that paperwork. I will read the documentation from Mr. Barrett. I do not think I said that the Commissioner acted with alacrity. I did say that she accepted the findings of the report, put in place arrangements to ensure the recommendations were implemented and sent the report to the Committee of Public Accounts and the Comptroller and Auditor General because she is the Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts. Deputy Howlin mentioned a sub-committee and said that the question was asked regarding the purpose of the sub-committee. Its purpose was to find out further information that the Commissioner required in order to satisfy herself that she was happy that the section 41 requirement would be completed and a response sent to the Minister. These questions are being actively pursued by the Committee of Public Accounts. I do not speak for the Commissioner here but all these events and issues took place long before she became Commissioner. I read in some of the newspapers that her function when she was in Templemore was specialist training and that she did not deal with that side of the activities at the Garda College. In respect of what Deputy Micheál Martin pointed out, I read about Mr. Barrett, that he received quite serious push-back in respect of the issues he was raising here and that he was counselled by people to be careful. These are matters that need to be teased out at the Committee of Public Accounts, as I am sure they will be. I have no doubt that the Commissioner will attend there and defend her position as Garda Commissioner and as the only Garda Commissioner who took action in this matter to see that it was sorted out. Everybody knows that we have had a range of issues relating to An Garda Síochána for six, eight or ten years and before. Deputy Howlin was very forthright in making the point that we should have a totally independent police authority and repeated that on many occasions. That has been a fundamental change in the way we look at all of this. I hope that the commission looking at the structure with a root-and-branch focus on An Garda Síochána, its culture and competence and the way it is run will produce serious dividends for the community and the force itself in the time ahead. What has happened in the past has not been to the benefit of the pride of An Garda Síochána in many respects but yet there are so many gardaí who do their job as one would expect - professionally and in the interests of the State and the uniform they wear. I hope that 13 July will be the next opportunity for the Committee of Public Accounts to follow through on further details about the issues surrounding Templemore. 
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 and 2 together. The Cabinet committee on social policy and public service reform last met on 10 April 2017. The next meeting of the committee has been scheduled for 15 May.
First, on the role of the Cabinet sub-committee on social policy and public service reform, it provides a basis for cross-departmental co-ordination in the delivery of the programme for Government in the areas of equality, social policy and social inclusion, including a focus on particularly vulnerable groups and to support continued improvements in the area of public service. I welcome the report from the commission chaired by Mr. Kevin Duffy. The programme for a partnership Government committed the Government to establish a public service pay commission to examine pay levels across the public service and in line with this commitment, the Government agreed in principle in July of last year to establish that independent advisory body to examine public service remuneration and pay rates. The terms of reference were finalised after an open consultation process that was carried out on the role and methodology of the commission and how it should approach this trifold relationship. The terms of reference provided that the commission would be advisory in nature. The Government retains the right to negotiate terms and conditions directly with the employees. For its initial report, the commission was asked to provide inputs on how the unwinding of the financial emergency measures in the public interest, FEMPI, legislation should proceed having regard to particular issues: the evolution of pay trends in the public and private sectors based on published information, a comparison of pay rates for identifiable groups within the public service with prevailing non-public sector market rates, international markers and comparisons where possible and the state of the national finances.
Finally, on this matter, the role of the Government is to strike an appropriate balance between what we pay our public servants to ensure we can attract, train and retain staff and compete in the labour market for those skilled staff who need to provide public services and the primary consideration for any employer, which is the ability to pay its employees. The State is no different from other employers. The process of direct negotiations will begin shortly.
The Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform has stated clearly the value that the State places on its public employees and the work that they have done and the sacrifices that they have made over the past period. The State also must have regard to its legal obligations to unwind the FEMPI measures, which were imposed on public servants during the crisis and significantly reduced their remuneration and pay as a consequence. The commission report reflects those requirements but it makes particular note of the fact that control of the public service pay bill is a central determinant of budgetary policy. It will be a matter for the parties to negotiate a timeframe that will provide for the orderly unwinding of the financial emergency legislation having regard to maintaining sustainable national finances and competitiveness, other Government spending priorities, the public service reform agenda and equality considerations on public service pay. I hope that the Minister will be in a position to commence negotiations quickly following engagement between the civil servants of the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform and the representatives of the unions involved. The Minister is anxious, on behalf of Government, to commence that as quickly as possible and to have an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement. It is in the interests of everybody to have a balance here of affordability, sustainability and fairness, and the Minister has made those points clearly to date.
In respect of the question from Deputy Martin, the committee did not consider the campaign by the Department of Social Protection. On the previous occasion we met we discussed unallocated cases from Tusla, the national women's strategy and single affordable child care, which is an issue that is being dealt with here. This campaign has been launched by the Department of Social Protection itself.
I will check with the Minister for Social Protection on the specific point Deputy Martin raised in respect of fraud or other issues.
I take the Deputy's point.
I will come back to Deputy Martin on it. Deputy Howlin raised an important point. The report sets out a basic bedrock for valuable discussions and it is not for me to predetermine what the Government outcome on it might be. As I understand it, the next step is that officials from what was at one time Deputy Howlin's Department will engage with personnel in the public sector unions and the Minister will start the negotiations as soon as possible for an extension of the Lansdowne Road agreement. In respect of pensions, the commission was tasked, first, with assessing the overall value of the public service remuneration package, which includes not only pay but pensions. That was provided for in the terms of reference of the commission. The work undertaken in that regard was both significant and important and I commend Mr. Duffy on his report. The approach of the Government to the issue of public service pensions is based on the fiscal sustainability of providing public service pensioners, current employees and future employees with public service pensions now and into the future. Deputy Howlin made a specific point on that. Both the State and its employees who are public servants have a shared interest in securing the sustainability of the pension system. Reform measures over the years such as integrating the occupational pension with the contributory State pension, extending the minimum retirement date from 60 to 65 and the introduction of a new career single public service pension scheme linked to the Civil Service pensions, CSP, age and the consumer price index, CPI, have contributed to the future sustainability of the public service occupational pension system. However, we know from right across the economy that pensions have become increasingly expensive. The outputs from the commission confirm that and they reflect the values of the pension entitlements for various pension cohorts currently within the public service. The proposal by the commission that any agreed adjustment in pension contributions for public servants in respect of pension benefits should be linked with the discontinuance of the pension related deduction, PRD, imposed by the Financial Emergency Measures in the Public Interest, FEMPI, 2009 Act has been noted. Those are matters which will undoubtedly feature in the proposed public service pay discussions. That is best left for that engagement and interaction to take place. The commission considers that the values identified for those on legacy standard accrual pension schemes and fast accrual schemes should be addressed by providing for an increased employee contribution for those who continue to benefit from such schemes. Rates of contribution are a matter for negotiation. While the commission considers it would be reasonable to apply any agreed adjustments in contributions in conjunction with the discontinuance of the pension related deduction currently imposed on public servants under the FEMPI Act, in the commission's view the value of public service pensions could be reasonably fixed in a range of 12% to 18% over private sector norms for pre-2013 standard-accrual pension schemes but that fast accrual schemes incur greater costs. The point raised by Deputy Howlin is an important one and I expect it will feature centrally in the discussions.
I received the final report of the Fennelly commission on 31 March 2017 and it was published on my Department's website on 6 April 2017. The commission's final report made findings of great concern to the Government and, I am sure, to this House. The commission found that recording and retaining non-999 calls was not authorised by common law or by statute and that An Garda Síochána therefore infringed the constitutional rights of those recorded. The commission also made damning findings about the lack of effective oversight and procedures within An Garda Síochána over a lengthy period and the failure to respond when some technicians and officers raised concerns and questions. However, the commission also found that it is "reasonable to conclude, based on the evidence before it, that no widespread or systematic, indeed probably no significant, misuse of information derived from non-999 recordings took place". The commission also found no evidence of knowledge of the recording of non-999 telephone calls on the part of relevant Ministers for Justice and Equality, the Department of Justice and Equality, or other State agencies. Taken together, the findings of the Fennelly commission reinforce the Government's determination to carry out a fundamental review of the future of policing in Ireland. In April, the Government approved draft terms of reference for a commission on the future of policing in Ireland, and the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality is consulting all parties in the House before those are finalised. The review will look at all functions carried out by An Garda Síochána, including community safety, State security and immigration. It will also consider the full range of bodies that provide oversight and accountability for policing in Ireland. It will take account of the changing nature of crime, society and public expectations; best practice in other countries; previous reports concerning policing in Ireland; and any specific challenges to delivering consistent reform in policing. In addition to this comprehensive reform agenda, the Government has also agreed that the Tánaiste will refer the Fennelly report to the Policing Authority to oversee implementation of its recommendations in the context of its oversight of An Garda Síochána; examine the need for legislation on the recording of calls and related matters on foot of the recommendations of the Fennelly commission; and refer matters in the report relating to the Bailey case to the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, GSOC, to consider whether it believes any further investigation is necessary against the background of the investigation it has been carrying out already into the case.
First, the interim internal audit report in relation to the finances of the Garda College were submitted to the Tánaiste's Department on 27 March this year. That raises serious issues concerning the governance and accountability in the college, which the Tánaiste has stated must be addressed comprehensively and thoroughly. Some of the main issues of concern highlighted by that report include the manner in which the college was run, the existence of a large number of bank accounts and investment accounts linked to the college, staffing issues, and issues relating to the ownership and use of certain lands, the previous 2008 report raising issues in relation to the college, and the non-implementation of its recommendations. The Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts is the Garda Commissioner. The Commissioner has accepted the findings set out in the report and has put in place arrangements to ensure the recommendations are implemented. The Commissioner sent the report to the Committee of Public Accounts as well as to the Comptroller and Auditor General. The Committee of Public Accounts commenced its examination of the report on 4 May and will continue its work on 13 July. The Tánaiste has been assured that the Garda authorities recognise the gravity of the issues raised here and that they are taking active steps to progress the recommendations in the report. External governance expertise and auditors have been engaged. A steering committee, chaired by the chief administrative officer and including a representative from the Tánaiste's Department, is overseeing the implementation of the recommendations. There are several aspects to that implementation of the recommendations that do require further consideration to ensure there is a full understanding of the extent of the issues identified, the implications of the actions required to put the appropriate governance structures and financial and operational processes and procedures in place in the college to address fully the recommendations, and the future development of the Garda College. This work is under way. On receipt of the report and in view of the gravity of the issues raised, the Tánaiste immediately requested the Policing Authority to oversee the implementation of the recommendations and to report back to her on a quarterly basis in relation to the progress being made. The authority intends to submit its first report in July. In the course of the Committee of Public Accounts hearing on 4 May, a discrepancy emerged in the evidence given by the Garda Commissioner and the executive director of human resources and people development, Mr. Barrett, over the length of a discussion in late July during which the executive director raised concerns about the college's finances. The Commissioner recollected what she described as a brief discussion when she and a number of other senior officers were having tea after a long meeting at the college. Mr. Barrett recollected the discussion extending to over two hours.
Mr. Barrett had recorded the start and end times of the discussion in a document that he had prepared in September 2015. In his evidence to the committee he described this document as a minute of the discussion, but on further examination it emerged that it was not a contemporaneous note but rather a document prepared for a different purpose over a month later, which included his recollection of the discussion. In her evidence to the committee, the Commissioner said she was fully briefed on the issues a couple of days after the discussion with Mr. Barrett in July. The discrepancy would appear to be of no significance in so far as the Commissioner's handling of the issues in relation to the college is concerned----- 
-----but does point to some internal division in the senior management team in An Garda Síochána upon which it would not be appropriate for me to comment.
I will have that looked at.
The Commissioner sends material under section 41 to the Minister for Justice and Equality on an occasional basis. I do not know the extent of the referral of section 41s.
I am not sure it is.
The Tánaiste attends on Thursday mornings to deal with Leader's Questions. There are other facilities, as the Deputy knows, for Deputies to put down questions to individual Ministers. I point out to the Deputy again that the Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts 1866 to 1998 is the Garda Commissioner. She has accepted the findings set out in the report and has put in place arrangements to ensure the recommendations are implemented. These activities in Templemore in respect of bank accounts and movements of money do not represent acceptable accountancy. That is why it has to be dealt with by this report. What did the Commissioner do? She sent the report to the Committee of Public Accounts and to the Comptroller and Auditor General. That is what she should have done, and that is what she did. The Committee of Public Accounts commenced its examination of the report on 4 May. What happened at the Committee of Public Accounts? We now have different accounts of a meeting. I do not speak for the Commissioner or for Mr. Barrett. He prepared a report. The information I have says that in his evidence to the committee, he described the document as a minute of the discussion.
On further examination, however, it emerged that it was not a contemporaneous note, but rather a document prepared for a different purpose over a month later.
There is a very serious difference of opinion here.
I do not speak for Mr. Barrett. I have no remit either for Mr. Barrett, or indeed for the Commissioner, in respect of this committee. They are to answer to the committee.
Let me make the point-----
Who sent this report to the PAC? The Garda Commissioner. Why did she do that?
Because she is the Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts 1866 to 1998. She took action by sending the report to the committee and to the Comptroller and Auditor General. She attends at the committee herself. Obviously the committee continues its work and will be in session again on 13 July.
It will have this report and Mr. Barrett's report before it and it will have the Commissioner before it. Is that not the location where both can give their view on the minutes of this meeting, on whether they were made contemporaneously or for a different purpose and on the different recollections of both-----
No, I will be clear on this. The Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality was very clear with An Garda Síochána. The Commissioner herself was very clear on where responsibility lies. It is very easy, as the Deputy well knows, in this age of digital accuracy to determine who made the phone calls to PULSE, when they were made and whether they were true. The work to determine the veracity of this is now under way.
There cannot be a situation where a million tests were purported to be carried out when they were not.
Obviously there is a responsibility to address this.
Both the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality and the Garda Commissioner have stated very clearly where that responsibility lies. We have to define for certain who was responsible down the line for making these decisions-----
-----and making the calls that led to these figures, because the figures do not lie in this case.
The question involved asking me when I received the Fennelly commission report and the actions I took thereafter. That is the question I was asked but we are now in detailed discussion about the meetings that took place and the actions that did or did not happen, as the case may be, in respect of the issues relating to Templemore. I do not have all of that paperwork. I will read the documentation from Mr. Barrett. I do not think I said that the Commissioner acted with alacrity. I did say that she accepted the findings of the report, put in place arrangements to ensure the recommendations were implemented and sent the report to the Committee of Public Accounts and the Comptroller and Auditor General because she is the Accounting Officer for the purposes of the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts. Deputy Howlin mentioned a sub-committee and said that the question was asked regarding the purpose of the sub-committee. Its purpose was to find out further information that the Commissioner required in order to satisfy herself that she was happy that the section 41 requirement would be completed and a response sent to the Minister. These questions are being actively pursued by the Committee of Public Accounts. I do not speak for the Commissioner here but all these events and issues took place long before she became Commissioner. I read in some of the newspapers that her function when she was in Templemore was specialist training and that she did not deal with that side of the activities at the Garda College. In respect of what Deputy Micheál Martin pointed out, I read about Mr. Barrett, that he received quite serious push-back in respect of the issues he was raising here and that he was counselled by people to be careful. These are matters that need to be teased out at the Committee of Public Accounts, as I am sure they will be. I have no doubt that the Commissioner will attend there and defend her position as Garda Commissioner and as the only Garda Commissioner who took action in this matter to see that it was sorted out. Everybody knows that we have had a range of issues relating to An Garda Síochána for six, eight or ten years and before. Deputy Howlin was very forthright in making the point that we should have a totally independent police authority and repeated that on many occasions. That has been a fundamental change in the way we look at all of this. I hope that the commission looking at the structure with a root-and-branch focus on An Garda Síochána, its culture and competence and the way it is run will produce serious dividends for the community and the force itself in the time ahead. What has happened in the past has not been to the benefit of the pride of An Garda Síochána in many respects but yet there are so many gardaí who do their job as one would expect - professionally and in the interests of the State and the uniform they wear. I hope that 13 July will be the next opportunity for the Committee of Public Accounts to follow through on further details about the issues surrounding Templemore. 
The Government has shown priority in the funding it has allocated to the health area for 2017 which, as the Deputy will be aware, is €14.5 billion. The Government allocated €20 million to the National Treatment Purchase Fund for 2017, rising to €55 million in 2018. Last December the Minister, Deputy Harris, granted approval to the National Treatment Purchase Fund to dedicate €5 million of its funding to a day case waiting list initiative with the aim of ensuring that no patient would be waiting for more than 18 months for a day case procedure by 30 June 2017. In excess of 2,000 cases will be managed through the process and those patients are already receiving appointments. In order to reduce the numbers of long-waiting patients, the HSE was asked to develop the waiting list action plans for 2017 in the areas of inpatient, day case, scoliosis, and outpatient services. Those plans have now been finalised and will be acted on shortly. The HSE and the INMO both agree that the time patients spend on trolleys waiting for beds has decreased. I acknowledge the work front-line staff have put into that initiative. Notwithstanding those improvements, the figures are too high and the Department continues to work with the HSE to identify further measures that can be taken. In respect of Deputy Micheál Martin's comment about nursing and midwifery, management has committed to increasing the nursing and midwifery workforce in 2017 with 1,208 additional permanent posts; the conversion of agency-employed staff into HSE direct employees; maternity leave cover; offering all graduating nurses and midwives full-time contracts; a career break scheme; 130 additional undergraduate places this year and offering nurses and midwives improved educational opportunities and career pathways. The HSE has developed an inpatient day case waiting list action plan with engagement from the Department and the NTPF. The plan focuses on reducing the number of patients. It is estimated that there are 39,000 patients to be treated by the end of October 2017 and the plan sets a target to remove approximately 75% of those patients from the waiting list, that is, 29,000 patients, through a combination of normal hospital national service plan-funded activity, as well as resourcing and outsourcing initiatives utilising the remaining €10 million of budget 2017 funding. That represents a 30% increase in activity, which demonstrates the priority attached to it. Our hospitals are now carrying out four times more procedures on patients aged 65 and over, and twice as many in the under-65 age group since 2000.
This is my final point, a Cheann Comhairle. In 2016 alone there has been a 4% increase in inpatient and day case activity over 2015. Last year, almost 1.69 million patients received inpatient or day case treatment in hospitals, which is an increase of almost 40,000 on the previous year. That demonstrates the urgency and priority attached to the issue, while admitting that the waiting lists are too long. Serious action is being taken to address those problems.
In the negotiations and discussions we had about the formation of a Government, it was agreed, indeed at the Deputy's own suggestion, that the National Treatment Purchase Fund would be restored. The restoration was costing €20 million for 2017, rising to €55 million for 2018. It is not true to say that nothing is happening. The NTPF has now commenced the initiative of €5 million for the day case waiting initiative which was approved last December. It is expected that in excess of 2,000 patients will receive treatment under this initiative. They will thus be off that waiting list. In respect of the outpatient waiting list, it is estimated that there are more than 190,000 patients who fall into this category. The plan sets a target to remove over 50% of these from the waiting list, that is, in excess of 95,000 patients. That represents around 5,000 extra patients or a 5% increase in activity since last year in that particular patient cohort. In respect of the NTPF and the inpatient day case waiting list action plan, we hope to have 39,000 persons treated by the end of October. The plan sets a target to remove 75% of these patients from the waiting lists, that is, more than 29,000 patients between the normal hospital service plan funded activity, as well as insourcing and outsourcing initiatives utilising the remaining €10 million of the budget for 2017. The money is being spent and is making serious inroads into the numbers, as I have already outlined, on the initiatives undertaken by it.
As Deputy Adams well knows, the Committee of Public Accounts is removed from the influence of the Oireachtas. I am not aware of the papers he to which he refers being given to that committee. They have certainly not come into my possession, nor should they if they were given directly to the Chairman or a member of the Committee of Public Accounts. I have confidence in the Garda Commissioner to do her job. This morning, the Cabinet approved the nomination of Kathleen O'Toole, the chief of police in Seattle, to chair the review body dealing with An Garda Síochána. She is an outstanding person of great experience in both legal and policing terms and has a deep understanding of the situation that applies here in Ireland. I expect that nomination to be ratified by Cabinet next week. In addition, the Cabinet also approved the terms of reference for the investigation into Project Eagle this morning, a matter which has been raised by Members on a number of occasions. Following receipt of further observations from the Fianna Fáil Party and from Deputy Wallace, I took those observations into account and had approval given for the terms of reference for that investigation. These actions are being taken by Government in respect of matters of public concern. I expect Garda Commissioner O'Sullivan to do her job. She is expected to appear again before the Committee of Public Accounts. I understand that she is to go back for further discussion with the committee later this month or next month. I am not quite sure of the date. I referred previously to the sad, unfortunate and tragic death of Tony Golden. I told Deputy Adams that there are two parallel investigations ongoing in respect of that murder. All of the evidence that Deputy Adams gave to me and to the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality has been transferred to those dealing with the matter. Obviously, it is important that the investigations into this sad and tragic case are allowed to be followed through on and that they take the information that the Deputy supplied into account. As to whether that information can stand up, it is not for me to comment on its veracity. I am sure the Deputy would not have given it to me without a good reason to do so.
The answer to the last question is "No".
No, it is not the truth. The problem here is the supply of houses throughout the country. Anyone can understand that there is real pressure in certain segments of the housing sector. The Deputy can nod his head if he likes. I read a report this morning that said that 49 houses priced between €400,000 and €700,000 were snapped up inside a day by those who could afford them. There are no difficulties in certain areas. It is true to say that there is a serious issue here. A total of 40,000 vacant units have been bought by the State in the past five years. If the Deputy had given me the details of the situation about which he spoke, I could probably have given him an accurate answer but I can say to him that the report about rental prices and rent pressure zones shows that rent inflation has slowed over the past quarter. The rate of increase in Dublin rents between quarter 4 of last year and quarter 1 of this year was significantly lower than the rate of increase over the year. Quarterly inflation registered in quarter 1 of 2017 was 0.7% in south County Dublin, 1.4% in west County Dublin, 1.6% in north County Dublin, 1.5% in north Dublin city, 2.1% in Dublin city centre and 1.4% in south Dublin city. I am sure the Deputy will be interested in the figure of 0.7% for south County Dublin. There is also strong rent inflation in the commuter counties. The increases are placing huge pressure on tenants, particularly those seeking new accommodation. The 
The number of vacant properties since 2011 is 40,000. The action taken by the Minister in respect of the second point raised by Deputy Boyd Barrett was on foot of legal advice received from the Attorney General.
Let me clarify what I meant when I said that 40,000 properties have come back into use.
I take the Deputy's point. One thousand properties were purchased by the State at a cost of €203 million.
The others are through the normal churn of reconstructions, sales, local authority purchases and so on.
The Minister will soon launch the strategy for the return of vacant dwellings to habitable use. There are approximately 34,000 vacant units in Dublin. There is a list of vacant apartments and dwellings to be returned to use.
Even Deputy Boyd Barrett understands that these apartments cannot be returned to a habitable state overnight in order to be allocated to people.
Deputy Boyd Barrett has pointed out to me in the past number of weeks that people have been sent 10 km or 12 km to hostels or hotels because the local accommodation was unsuitable.The strategy that the Minister, Deputy Coveney is to introduce in the next couple of weeks is to deal with that very issue. 
Vacant units, apartments and houses in the Deputy's area and every other area have to be the subject of a strategy to return them to habitable use for people in order that they can raise their families in them.
It means that agreement is required. Obviously there are a number of different parties here; the State, the city council and private property owners. The Government made a decision by the end of 2015 to purchase Nos. 14 to 17 Moore Street and to keep the site permanently in the State's hands for people to understand the historic importance of the buildings and their part in Irish history. This was an important decision, at considerable cost, made by the state and the State now owns it. Clearly, emerging from the side door of the GPO and turning left, moving down towards Moore Street and up towards the Rotunda are - as I have often said - the lanes of history. Dublin City Council has a responsibility here also and elements of the buildings on either side were private property. As part of the overall sensitive and comprehensive centenary commemorations, the Government has set out to ensure that the Nos. 14 to 17 Moore Street national monument would be restored in the most sensitive way possible, given the circumstances that apply around it. There was not agreement about that. It is impossible to proceed with a proper structure and a plan unless there is agreement. Agreement always requires compromise from the set positions that people may wish adopt. I recall being involved centrally in saying that this building must be purchased for the people and for the use by the people for all time. I thought that it might have been of some assistance in the overall programme.There was disagreement about the extent of the buildings purchased given the importance of all of the buildings in that street, and whether and how one might restore the laneways up to the Rotunda where the formal surrender actually took place. I will have the Minister, Deputy Heather Humphreys, respond to Deputy O'Sullivan about the current position and the extent to which further progress can be made. She will appreciate that there has been a considerable measure of progress made, the site being within the north inner city, where the State has taken an interest in dealing with issues of neglect for many years. I hope we can have agreement on an outcome between the different parties involved, namely, the State with its responsibility in so far as the national monument is concerned, Dublin City Council, the planning authorities and private enterprise. Together, we may come to a solution that would enhance the area while retaining the context of this historic location and the part it played in a seminal moment in Irish history, which helped us on our way to economic and political independence.
I recall speaking to experts in restoration about the structural condition of the building. It was clear that we could not proceed to do sensitive restoration work without the building being structurally sound. It is for experts and engineers to determine how that should be done. I take the Deputy's point. There is a measure of agreement here. Having made a major move in purchasing Nos. 14 to 17 for the good of the people of Dublin and Ireland for all time, I would hope that we could build on that agreement in determining what the next appropriate and proper step should be. I will consult with the Minister, Deputy Humphreys, and come back to Deputy O'Sullivan. I had genuinely thought that we might have been in a position to have Nos. 14 to 17 restored and opened to whatever small numbers could go through at any one time, as part of the restoration of the GPO, Kilmainham, the military archives and so on. However, because of the situation that arose it was not possible. The good thing is that it has been purchased and is now owned by the State. It is secured and that at least is an important point from which we can move towards a conclusion in the interests of the city and the country, and not least of those who live in the locality.
We should get something very clear here, first of all. This is a very different working Dáil to previous Dáileanna because the Government does not control the full agenda here. One of the changes that we made was to give backbench Deputies the right to put forward opportunities for Private Members' Bills. That is an important facility in any democracy.
We had but, as Deputy Martin knows, few of them came through.
We did not have a backed-up list of 140. In my time in here, few Private Members' Bills have passed – I could count fewer than a dozen in any particular year, although maybe I am wrong. We now have 140 of these Bills backed up. It is easy for a Deputy to say an issue should be addressed and that he or she should get a Bill drafted on it. What happens is that the Minister responsible, especially in the area of justice, then has to take that Bill and amend it properly to deal with all of the issues that arise from it and that might not have been considered by the Deputy with the best intentions in the world.
Some of the Bills that are being taken have to be amended extensively by the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel to the Government to make them into a Bill that is fit for purpose-----
-----and taking into account issues that might be far beyond the central issue.
For instance, we have-----
Currently, there are perhaps 20 Bills before the Dáil. Some are on Report Stage while others are on Second Stage or Committee Stage. A similar situation arises in respect of the Seanad Order Paper. The Deputy is around a long time and knows that the Constitution is clear in respect of money messages. Article 17.2 states:Dáil Éireann shall not pass any vote or resolution, and no law shall be enacted, for the appropriation of revenue or other public moneys unless the purpose of the appropriation shall have been recommended to Dáil Éireann by a message from the Government signed by the Taoiseach.
If we are to have 140 Bills-----
The point is-----
Let me make my point.
Let me make the point. For instance, take the Coroner's Bill-----
nan
However, I am not in a position to accede to requests such as this one-----
-----which is that we should respond by having money messages signed by the Taoiseach in accordance with the Constitution, when we know the outcome.
It was a good thing that any Deputy would be able to put forward a Private Member's Bill, but perhaps we on all sides did not think it out clearly enough and ask what we meant by it. We cannot put through a Bill that is inadequate, inferior or will not work.
Therefore, while the thought or the intent might have been good, the Minister involved might have to amend the Bill extensively. If there is a money charge, it does not fall into line with the expenditure intentions and priorities of the Department.
Perhaps that is an issue that we should discuss. In respect of the 140 Bills, I know that there is a discussion to be had through the Ceann Comhairle's chairmanship as to what the parties want as their priorities out of that 140.
I note the comments in the current controversy about this matter. I understand that there have been no public prosecutions for blasphemy under the 2009 Act. I also understand the last prosecution for blasphemy by public authorities in Ireland is thought to have been in 1855, which is quite a distance back.The current statutory provision for the offence of blasphemy is section 36 of the 2009 Act, which defines what constitutes blasphemy and what defences and penalties apply. My party opposed the inclusion of the offence of blasphemy in the Bill at the time, but the Act was introduced following the advice of successive Attorneys General that it was required following the Supreme Court's decision in what is known as the Corway case in order to give legislative effect to the offence of blasphemy contained in Article 46.1.1° of the Constitution. The Defamation Act abolished the possibility, formerly available under common law, of a private individual bringing a prosecution for blasphemy. The Corway case was a rare example of such a private prosecution but was unsuccessful. Deputy Adams quite rightly raises the point that a referendum must be held to deal with this matter. The Constitution adopted in 1937 provides in Article 40.6.1° that blasphemy is a criminal offence. This article describes the constitutional right to freedom of expression and its limits and states: "The public utterance of blasphemous, seditious, or indecent matter is an offence which shall be punishable in accordance with law." The previous Government agreed a referendum should be held on blasphemy. It is a case of Government finding an opportunity to deal with this. A number of other matters arise from the Constitutional Convention that are well recommended and on which it is agreed referenda should be held. Clearly, in respect of the Citizens' Assembly, a referendum will be required in due course on Article 40.3.3°.
I had originally thought it might be possible to hold a number of referenda on the one day, but when one gets into these matters and people begin to understand the fors and the againsts, the yes and the no-----
-----it is not as simple as it might sound. There are quite a number of referenda backed up, and they take time-----
------with referendum commissions to be independent in their analysis and give people full information so they can vote Yes or No to whatever question is asked, and the matter of blasphemy is one such question.
Deputy Howlin raises a valid question. As he is aware, vacancies are recommended for filling by a process to the Minister for Justice and Equality. One vacancy arising from the death of an esteemed Supreme Court judge was not filled, and was not recommended to be filled, because the Court of Appeal was taking quite a number of cases that would normally go to the Supreme Court. That was the purpose of the setting up of the Court of Appeal. As per the normal course of events, a number of members of the Judiciary have been appointed recently on foot of the recommendations that have come in reduced numbers from the Judicial Appointments Advisory Board. I expect that the legislation dealing with judicial appointments will come before Cabinet next Tuesday.
It seems Deputy Michael Healy-Rae knows them all as well. I do not know whether they cashed or they are a stroke for him but good luck to him in that regard.
I raised with the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food this morning a number of cases from different counties that had been raised. I understand more than 90% of payments have been made. I do not know whether the difficulty lies with the Department or the application or whether, as the Deputy stated, it is related to information technology. However, the Deputy can take it that the Minister is working to get payments to the farmers who remain to be paid, including those whom he knows, and the problems associated with them sorted out in order that people can get the money that is available and ready to be sent to them. The Minister is working actively to ensure the issues, whatever they are, are sorted out and the farmers paid.
Deputy Gallagher is in a commanding position when he moves down to the floor. I will bring his comments to the attention of the Minister for Health and find out the position. The good people in the Donegal office are well capable of dealing with applications from their county and many other counties. Many State services are vested in the county and they do a very good job.
I am assured by the Ministers involved that the position regarding guidelines for wind farms should be brought before the House in the next couple of weeks.
It is true that this has gone on for a very long time. Agreement could not be reached between two Ministers in a previous Government. I am very confident that agreement will be reached between the two Ministers involved in this case.
Deputy Curran raised the additional expenditure issue. He knows about this. Clearly, the Minister of State, Deputy Catherine Byrne, is dealing with this area. She obviously has a very genuine interest in and has made quite a substantial amount of progress on it. Some of the drug task forces throughout the country have been outstanding; others not so. It is not always about the level of money that is allocated - it is about the work and the progress made within each of the task force areas. I can have the Minister of State, Deputy Catherine Byrne, respond to Deputy Curran or perhaps he might like to raise this as a Topical Issue, with the consent of the Ceann Comhairle.
Yes, I know that.
The first thing I would say is that the Government appointed a Minister of State with responsibility for disabilities, Deputy Finian McGrath, and provided a substantial budget. Early intervention services and services for school-aged children with disabilities need to be improved and organised more effectively. This is a process that is well under way under the direction of the Minister of State. The HSE is currently engaged in a reconfiguration of existing therapy resources to geographic-based teams for children from nought to 18 years, and the objective of this new model of assessment, which I support, and intervention is to provide a single, clear referral pathway for all children nought to 18 years irrespective of their disability, where they live or the school that they attend. Evidence from areas shows that the implementation of this programme will have a positive impact on waiting lists for both assessments and therapies, and full implementation of the progressing disability services for children and young people programme is expected before the end of 2017.
Two final points, a Cheann Comhairle. Some €8 million in additional money was invested in 2014 and 2015 in order to fund 200 additional posts to support the implementation of the new model. A further €4 million in additional funding was provided for 75 therapy posts in 2016. It is expected that this reconfiguration will have a very significant impact on the HSE's ability to meet the needs of children and young people in a more efficient, effective and timely manner.
It is actually out of the bundle because the Minister of State at the Department of Health, Deputy McEntee, is carrying out a public consultation on this very issue, namely how best to provide services in their own homes for people who want to stay there. The Deputy will know that the last person often asked where they want to be is the person who wants to stay in his or her own home. Why would he or she not want to stay in his or her own home? For years, we have had the disabled persons grant and we have had assistance through the local authorities to convert houses to make them suitable for people who might have particular challenges, for example, by doing work upstairs or in back rooms, or by providing more suitable and appropriate sanitary facilities in bathrooms and so on. I would make the point that the home care package numbers have increased and that where they work, they work exceptionally well. The Minister of State is carrying out this public consultation to see what people want and how best that might be facilitated. The Deputy's point is opportune but the Bill is out on the table and is actively being pursued by way of public consultation by the Minister of State.
I thank Deputy Troy. The Deputy has gone beyond my words. What I said was that there are 140 Private Members' Bills on the list at the moment which were brought forward by Deputies from all parties. Many of those Bills have to be amended very extensively by the relevant Minister or Department involved.
It is not the actual cost that is stalling these Bills, rather it is the requirement to introduce amendments in order to make them compatible with what is legislatively acceptable. If they were to go through, a cost would accrue and would be taken from the Vote of each individual Department. I have read out the constitutional piece for Deputy Micheál Martin in that regard.
In respect of the Technological Universities Bill, I will ask the Minister for Education and Skills, Deputy Bruton, to deal with this as it is not he who is holding it up. He will explain why to the Deputy.
I have already referred to the situation in so far as the Department of Health is concerned. The Minister for Health is now in a position with the HSE to offer permanent contracts to every new nurse coming out. The Minister is offering incentives for nurses to come back home. The Minister is offering enhanced educational opportunities for nurses who are currently working. There is a range of incentives to give young trained nurses the opportunity to work at home here. In respect of Deputy Cullinane's question, the report of the Public Service Pay Commission was approved by Government today for publication. It contains a detailed range of issues that have to be addressed. These will be addressed by the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform in respect of dealing with an extension of the existing Lansdowne Road agreement that would be fair, fiscally sustainable and capable of being met by the economy. Subject to the approval of the Government, which was given today, the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform will initiate discussions with the public service staff representatives to negotiate that extension to Lansdowne Road in the coming weeks. All these issues are set out in the Public Service Pay Commission report. It is not a recommending body for pay increases but it does set out some really relevant truths about the situation that has to be faced into by Government here. Deputy Cullinane will appreciate that.
Ireland has had a very strong record in respect of defending women's rights.
This committee at the United Nations will be chaired by the incoming ambassador, Ms Geraldine Byrne Nason, on behalf of Ireland next year and the Deputy can rest assured that the question of women's rights will be one that will be foremost in her mind at that committee. It has already been made clear by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade that not since 1947 have any of the secret ballots been divulged. There are very good reasons for that. Clearly, the issue that arose here was that a panel of five countries-----
-----were put forward: Turkmenistan, Korea, Japan, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. There were five nominations for five places. Obviously, there was a place for every country involved.
The important issue here is the functioning of the United Nations, the mechanics of how it actually works. In my view, it needs fairly serious reform. Be that as it may, these votes occur on a regular basis-----
-----every year, as they have since 1947.
This is the first time that Saudi Arabia has been on this committee. This will be a committee focused on women's rights. Obviously, Saudi Arabia will have to hear some home truths and will have to play its part.
I support the Minister, Deputy Flanagan, here in this matter. For those who wish that there would be a big row about this inside Cabinet, let me say that the members of the Independent Alliance were quite happy to say we need to have the opportunity to ask relevant questions and be better informed-----
-----about votes that are coming up at the United Nations by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, and that is the case. Clearly, since it was formed in 1947-----
-----we have never had cases of divulgence of secret votes. Deputy Ó Caoláin knows how important they are.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 and 2 together. The Cabinet committee last met on 10 April 2017. It is scheduled to meet again next Monday, 15 May. It will continue to meet regularly and consider progress in implementing Rebuilding Ireland - Action Plan for Housing and Homelessness, which is a priority issue for the Government.
It will continue to meet regularly and consider progress in implementing Rebuilding Ireland - Action Plan for Housing and Homelessness, which is a priority issue for the Government. It last met on Monday, 10 April 2017, and it is scheduled to meet again next Monday, 15 May.
I have already dealt with the Government's response to the latest  Supply is the central problem. We cannot ignore the high and rising level of rent in certain areas of the country. That is why the Government has introduced the rent predictability measure and established the system of rent pressure zones. Money is available to local authorities like never before and incentives have been introduced like never before in terms of dealing with many of those issues. There are 504 housing construction projects around the country. They include Rath na Gloine in Louth; eight houses in Aston Village; ten houses in Clos na Manach, Carlingford; 15 houses in Scarlet Street, Drogheda; 14 houses in Castlecourt, Castlebellingham; 41 houses in Liscorrie, Bog Lane, Drogheda; 22 houses in Coulter Place, Dundalk; 35 houses in Rathmullen Road; 35 houses in another project on Rathmullen Road, Drogheda; 14 houses in Cox's Demesne phase 2a; seven houses in Cox's Demesne phase 2b; seven houses in Tierney Street, Ardee; ten houses in Barrack Street, Dundalk; 11 houses in Clontygora, Dundalk; one house in McArdle Green; 23 houses in phase 2 Boice Court, 20 houses in Boice Court phase 3; 20 houses in Fr. Finn Park phase 2 and so on. Deputy Adams will know whether the houses are at an advanced stage of construction. The real problem is supply and every effort is being made to deal with it. That is why local authorities have been given money, incentives and opportunity to buy houses, restore vacant units and boarded up houses and there are other incentives to encourage people to bring houses back into habitable use that can be rented for a period, together with opportunities to build social housing directly by local authorities. In a number of cases private enterprise is allowed to build on local authority property. In addition, direct moneys have been put into opening up sites that were heretofore off limits.
Deputy Howlin raised a number of important points. The Rebuilding Ireland housing land map was launched by the Minister, Deputy Coveney, on 27 April. It is the first national map of its kind. By far the best way to track progress under Rebuilding Ireland is through such a map. It represents both the opportunity to deliver housing and also the individual data on active delivery from sites around the country. In other words, one knows what is going on. The mapping exercise is a vital, initial strategic step in the new State housing land management strategy being developed under Ireland 2040, the national planning framework. No doubt the map will evolve as we interface with key developers and stakeholders in the public and private sectors who are actively delivering housing. Some 2,000 ha of land were identified and there are approximately 800 sites between local authorities, the Housing Agency and other State and semi-State bodies. Taking a conservative estimate of 25 units per hectare, that is potentially 50,000 homes. In terms of Rebuilding Ireland it is fundamental that the State and in particular housing authorities do everything in their power to deliver quality social and affordable mixed tenure housing from those sites. There are four key sites that can deliver 3,000 badly needed homes. South Dublin County Council intends to deliver approximately 900 social and affordable homes at Kilcarberry, Clondalkin. A Dublin City Council housing land initiative has sites at Infirmary Road, also known as O'Devaney Gardens, St. Michael's Estate on Emmet Road, and Oscar Traynor Road which will deliver approximately 2,000 social and affordable houses. The State will also fund 30% of social housing on those four sites, which is approximately 900 newly built social houses. They will be fully integrated into brand new housing schemes in various locations in Dublin. A total of 30 sites have been identified on State and semi-State lands amounting to 200 ha in prime locations such as Galway Port, and 18 acres at the CIE-Ceannt Station site right in the centre of Galway city which is being master planned. All of those details are available for Deputy Howlin to examine. I met the chief executive of Deputy Howlin's local authority the other day. I understand that in Enniscorthy where planning permission has been granted and everything else is ready to go the local authority has been able to provide three-bedroom social housing in approximately 13 weeks. If that is true, which I hope it is, that is an incredible operation. That suggests we might be falling foul of public procurement issues, objections and other issues causing delay in other places. When rapid build was first introduced for housing it seemed to take an inordinately long time. However, if in some local authorities, one of which I came across myself by chance, it is possible to do that if all systems are go and one can build house X and house Y in such a period the question is why we cannot do it elsewhere. The Ministers are looking at the issue with the housing unit to examine whether there are delays that could be avoided. That was the case when Deputy Howlin was in government. For one reason or another when we started to use rapid build housing it took a long time. Deputy Howlin also inquired about Government measures and funding being made available. One would get lost in the figures sometimes.
A total of €98 million was allocated in 2017 for the Rebuilding Ireland initiative. There is a target that by mid-2017 the use of hotels for emergency accommodation would be eliminated. I am assured by the Minister that the target can be met. I agree it will be a very tight timeframe.
I am sorry, a Cheann Comhairle.
I have here a list of 504 housing construction projects all over the country. This makes real sense because it puts figures and details on locations. The list is available for everyone to see on the Department's website. Instead of talking about €98 million being available for rebuilding in Ireland in 2017, one can go through the individual units that are being constructed in groups of 20 to 50. That makes real sense for people who are going to live in these houses and know that the houses will be allocated to them. Therefore I do not accept what the Deputy has said. Some 3,000 households came out of homelessness in 2016, which is a substantial increase on what was there before. The moneys that have been allocated include Dublin City Council's winter initiative which delivered 200 extra beds for rough sleepers on the streets due to high rents, and others in hotels and hostels. All of these initiatives are part of the action plan. I do not want to read out the figures for the millions being allocated, but previous measures taken by government to tackle the costs associated with the provision of housing included reduced development contributions, a development contribution rebate scheme, changes to the Part 5 regime and new apartment guidelines. They were all brought in to reduce costs because we met with the Construction Industry Federation and so many others. The Deputy knows that this city is creeping northwards, north-westwards and westwards. In another 15 years, if it continues like that, it will be out near Mullingar with single houses. Dublin City Council has its views on this. Every city in the world has buildings which exceed the maximum height allowed in Dublin. It is not for me to set a fix on this. If developers and others involved in construction say they cannot make a profit given the guidelines and height restrictions, then we should give serious consideration to building somewhat higher in order to reduce the cost of development. Profit is not a dirty word in this context because it is about providing housing accommodation for people. One cannot sell a single apartment until the block is ready for sale, however. The Deputy asked about the reduction of costs but that was dealt with in reduced development contributions, the rebate scheme, changes to part 5 and new apartment guidelines. It is all about supply and more money than ever before has been allocated in a variety of ways to make an impact on this. It is working but obviously we are catching up on a big curve here.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 3 to 6, inclusive, together. The Cabinet Committee on Regional and Rural Affairs provides a whole of government approach to growth in the rural economy as well as supporting quality of life and local service delivery in the regions. In particular, the committee is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the Action Plan for Rural Development. The committee has met four times to date. It last met on the 12 December 2016 and is due to meet again later today. A monitoring group for the Action Plan for Rural Development, chaired by the Minister, Deputy Humphreys, met on 23 March and will meet again on 20 July. The committee will continue to oversee implementation of the plan, as well as considering specific policy issues of concern to rural Ireland
Brexit took up my time.
This is an important question. The document, Realising Our Potential in Rural Ireland, is a comprehensive statement on all the Departments and agencies covering the country outside the major urban centres. It does not just include isolated parts of rural Ireland but also covers the Irish language and investment in capital infrastructure. The Deputy will be aware that there is a €42 billion capital programme to 2025, which is currently being reviewed. A number of major roads have to be finished, such as one to the northwest, including Sligo, and also to Limerick, Cork and a number of other areas. We also need to cater for future developments with the metro and the possibility of other light-rail systems in various parts of the country. That is why in addition to all of that capital money, a European Investment Bank office has been opened in Dublin. They are now examining the feasibility of quite a number of major projects as to whether or not they can go ahead, on the basis that there will be an income stream to deal with the loan repayment requirements. That would remove a major section from normal Exchequer funds which would allow for that kind of development to take place. The Minister of State, Deputy Ring, brought forward the final report of the post office hub working group to the Government. That recommended four pilot projects based on the share value and co-location model of post offices, the approval of which has been granted by the Government. While those projects have not yet been initiated, I expect they are now in the process of being considered.As Deputy Adams is aware, everybody understands the importance of the national broadband plan. The Minister, Deputy Naughten's Department is very actively engaged in the procurement process for the provision of high-speed broadband services. The timeframe for roll-out depends on a number of factors, including the complexities that may be encountered by the procurement team and bidders during the process. A timeframe of three to five year is envisaged for the roll-out once contracts are in place. A detailed roll-out plan for the network, including a prioritisation programme to target areas of particularly poor service, areas with business needs and areas of high demand, will be published once the contracts are in place. Eir set out certain commitments under the agreement announced by the Minister, Deputy Naughten. It plans to provide broadband to an additional 300,000 premises in rural areas on a commercial basis. It has committed to completing the roll-out over a 90 week period, passing an average of 500 premises per day. In line with the published agreement there are regular review meetings, the purpose of which is to monitor this roll-out to ensure Eir meets its obligations under the agreement. My understanding is that there will be penalties for Eir if it does not measure up to what it has already agreed, though I like to be updated regularly on the 500 premises that are passed every day. The roll-out for high-speed broadband is a necessary part of the programme.
The Cabinet sub-committee has not considered the question of the purchase of Luggala. I recall the Minister, Deputy Ring, making the comment that he would be interested in negotiating or discussing the possibility of a purchase of this estate. I have never been to Luggala. I have obviously seen the pictures of it.
I believe it is a magnificent house and location. The State acquired substantial grounds in that area for an expansion of the national park. Clearly when the Deputy makes her point she looks to the expansion of Dublin over the next 20 years. The Wicklow Mountains and the environment are going to be of particular importance like the Lake District is across the water, where very substantial numbers of people travel every weekend. Hopefully they observe the country code and leave nothing behind but their footprints. The State acquired another premises belonging to the Guinness Trust a number of years ago, Farmleigh, which is used extensively for everything from the Bloom festival to the country markets. The big house is available for heads of state who might stay there. I will take the Deputy's suggestion. I am quite sure that if the State were to announce that it had acquired this fine estate there would be people saying that the money should be spent on social housing. It is always about a balance.
It is an important consideration. I will have Deputy Burton's view brought to the Minister and see if he is willing to continue on from his initial comment. I did not hear the programme that the Deputy mentioned, but I admire Paddy Moloney and the Chieftains. He seems to have been around forever and ever.
He seems to get better with every performance. Matt Molloy and all of the members of the Chieftains are wonderful ambassadors for the country.
We have published-----
-----our action plan for rural development, "Realising our Rural Potential". It is divided into five pillars. The first is about supporting sustainable communities and includes: making rural Ireland a better place to live in, enhancing local services, empowering local communities and building better communities. Pillar two is about supporting enterprise and employment and includes: growing and attracting enterprise, supporting sectoral growth, skills and innovation, supporting rural jobseekers and protecting incomes. Pillar three is about maximising our rural tourism and recreation potential and includes: supporting targeted rural tourism initiatives such as the Wild Atlantic Way, the midlands and lakelands district, Ireland's Ancient East; developing and promoting activity tourism and developing and promoting our natural and built heritage. The fourth pillar is about fostering culture and creativity in rural communities and arises from the evidence of the commemoration of 1916. This pillar includes increasing access to the arts in rural communities, enhancing culture and creativity in rural Ireland and promoting the Irish language as a key resource. The fifth point is about improving rural infrastructure. That includes the capital investment plan 2016-2021, the broadband and mobile phone access to which I have referred, rural transport and flood relief measures together with all the other issues that apply from the Common Agricultural Policy right through to every part of the country. This is the document. It is very comprehensive.
I do not know whether Deputy McGrath has read it but I have covered a few subjects-----
-----that would be of genuine interest to the people of Tipperary-----
-----from rural tourism to the beautiful mountains over which I have had the privilege of walking over the last number of years and opportunities to empower local communities to avail of small and medium enterprises, local jobs and local communities.It is all contained in here, along with money to back it up. The question is making it happen.
We changed the legislation to deal with the provision of broadband between service providers. SIRO is the issue there. Eir does its work. I recall several Fianna Fáil Ministers in New York after they put Telecom Éireann on the Stock Exchange, the assets that were stripped and how it left urban and rural Ireland without any signal at all.
The Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment is on the back of this horse because we want to see broadband brought to rural Ireland once and for all, and by that I mean small town Ireland and everything else. We have had discussions about Brexit and will have more, but one piece of the jigsaw is not clear yet. We have provided the European Council with a document containing all our priorities, but the Deputy knows we cannot investigate the detail of this until we get to a point where the first phase is dealt with, namely, the principles, modalities and the liabilities that apply. The second issue is the question of borders, with our Border being a case in point that every other country in Europe now understands. The third issue is the rights and reciprocal rights of Europeans living in the UK and  We will then move on to the future structure and framework of the UK with the EU. Central to that, as the Deputy is well aware, is the question of trade and how that will apply. We must figure out how we can have the closest possible relationship between Europe and the UK, and we will be on the European side here, given that the Single Market will be gone and we still do not know the British Government's view on tariffs or the customs union. That is where the problem and challenge will arise. We share the Deputy's view on this. The Government has set up a specific unit in the Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine to deal with the question of agrifood and drink exports to Great Britain, hedging forward and support for small and medium enterprises. We are well aware of the drop of €500 million in real value terms over six months because of currency fluctuations, so the Government is very interested in this. We have 100 trade missions abroad this year to increase sales of our products in other countries. I have just come back from Canada where I spoke about elements of that. The Deputy mentioned the equine industry. It is a case in point and he is perfectly right. Those who train horses to that level do not want to have delays and to be weighed down by an inordinate amount of bureaucracy. Clearly, in respect of stud farms North and South, our relationship with the British racing industry is very close. English horses race here and win sometimes while Irish horses race in England and win more often. That industry has the potential to deliver €2 billion to the Exchequer every year. It is and will continue to be strongly supported by the Government. These are issues we must take into account in real detail when those negotiations begin.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 and 8 together. I met with the President of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovi, in Government Buildings on 4 April as part of her three-day state visit to Ireland. During our meeting, we discussed the bilateral relationship between our two countries, EU-UK negotiations following the triggering by the UK of Article 50, and the future of Europe, including EU enlargement. President Grabar-Kitarovi also briefed me on regional issues in south-east Europe, touching on economic, political and social challenges. The Croatian President requested our advice in planning for Croatia's EU Presidency in 2020. In light of our extensive experience of seven EU Presidencies, I was pleased to be able to offer our assistance and our officials will follow up in this regard.
With regard to Deputy Burton's question about the fiscal rules, I do not accept that smaller countries are being discriminated against by the European Union. There are many different funds, including social funds, the Cohesion Fund, Common Agricultural Policy funds and so on. The Juncker plan concerns major infrastructure across countries, including transcontinental-----
-----facilities such as rail lines, major autobahns and so on. It is not a case of discriminating against small countries. Ireland voted on these fiscal rules in a referendum and 60% of voters approved the issue while 40% did not.
It was a long time ago but it is now part of the Constitution. If there has been a referendum on the issue, one cannot just change the rules again. The Labour Party has put forward a view that sufficient-----
-----resources are not being expended in capital works. We are now in a position of being able to borrow ten-year money at 0.1%.
When Deputy Burton entered Government with Fine Gael in 2011, the rate was almost 15%. It is not a case of not having access to money, it is not spending willy-nilly to a point where construction inflation increases out of all order and money goes by the tonne into the hands of developers. It is a case of having a balanced approach to the way the money is spent and the economy is managed at the same time. The referendum was approved by 60% of voters. It is part of what we accepted. Ireland was the only country to have a referendum on it. We need to move on to avail of other major projects from the European Investment Bank and so on. Deputy Adams spoke about the Croatian President. She is a very capable woman. She is a former Foreign Minister and a Fulbright scholar. She is very well clued-in to the situation across Europe and beyond. Deputy Adams described last week's meeting as shambolic. I explained at that meeting that included in the detailed document published is the outcome of the European Council meeting. That meeting, the European Parliament meeting and the European Commission meeting all agreed on one thing, which is that there are particular and unique circumstances applying to Ireland. I read Mr. Verhofstadt's article today. When I asked last week if there was any need for further discussions, there was no response because we were going to have discussions and statements in the House, which we had. I do not regard the meeting as having been shambolic. Perhaps Deputy Adams does for purposes outside this House. Who is now talking about Northern Ireland? It is the Irish Government. The Minister of State at the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Dara Murphy, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Flanagan, in their foreign affairs and European roles have spoken to every single person who has anything to do with European issues. The Minister of State had a full bilateral meeting with representatives from Croatia less than two months ago. The English are all over Europe talking about Northern Ireland. The Irish are all over Europe talking about Northern Ireland. However, nobody from Northern Ireland is doing so. The Scottish are all over Europe talking about Scotland. Who is speaking for Northern Ireland? This Government is doing so. Who is mentioning it? This Government. Who else is mentioning it? Britain is mentioning it. It is being said that there is no wish for a return to a hard border. Imagination and creativity are required to deal with this issue. We want the closest possible relationship with the United Kingdom from a European point of view. However, there is no voice from Northern Ireland being heard in Europe. The only voices to be heard are Irish and British. We are happy to continue to explain, in so far as we can, the details, the problems and the unique, particular and special circumstances that apply to Northern Ireland.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 and 2 together. The Cabinet committee last met on 10 April 2017. It is scheduled to meet again next Monday, 15 May. It will continue to meet regularly and consider progress in implementing Rebuilding Ireland - Action Plan for Housing and Homelessness, which is a priority issue for the Government.
It will continue to meet regularly and consider progress in implementing Rebuilding Ireland - Action Plan for Housing and Homelessness, which is a priority issue for the Government. It last met on Monday, 10 April 2017, and it is scheduled to meet again next Monday, 15 May.
I have already dealt with the Government's response to the latest  Supply is the central problem. We cannot ignore the high and rising level of rent in certain areas of the country. That is why the Government has introduced the rent predictability measure and established the system of rent pressure zones. Money is available to local authorities like never before and incentives have been introduced like never before in terms of dealing with many of those issues. There are 504 housing construction projects around the country. They include Rath na Gloine in Louth; eight houses in Aston Village; ten houses in Clos na Manach, Carlingford; 15 houses in Scarlet Street, Drogheda; 14 houses in Castlecourt, Castlebellingham; 41 houses in Liscorrie, Bog Lane, Drogheda; 22 houses in Coulter Place, Dundalk; 35 houses in Rathmullen Road; 35 houses in another project on Rathmullen Road, Drogheda; 14 houses in Cox's Demesne phase 2a; seven houses in Cox's Demesne phase 2b; seven houses in Tierney Street, Ardee; ten houses in Barrack Street, Dundalk; 11 houses in Clontygora, Dundalk; one house in McArdle Green; 23 houses in phase 2 Boice Court, 20 houses in Boice Court phase 3; 20 houses in Fr. Finn Park phase 2 and so on. Deputy Adams will know whether the houses are at an advanced stage of construction. The real problem is supply and every effort is being made to deal with it. That is why local authorities have been given money, incentives and opportunity to buy houses, restore vacant units and boarded up houses and there are other incentives to encourage people to bring houses back into habitable use that can be rented for a period, together with opportunities to build social housing directly by local authorities. In a number of cases private enterprise is allowed to build on local authority property. In addition, direct moneys have been put into opening up sites that were heretofore off limits.
Deputy Howlin raised a number of important points. The Rebuilding Ireland housing land map was launched by the Minister, Deputy Coveney, on 27 April. It is the first national map of its kind. By far the best way to track progress under Rebuilding Ireland is through such a map. It represents both the opportunity to deliver housing and also the individual data on active delivery from sites around the country. In other words, one knows what is going on. The mapping exercise is a vital, initial strategic step in the new State housing land management strategy being developed under Ireland 2040, the national planning framework. No doubt the map will evolve as we interface with key developers and stakeholders in the public and private sectors who are actively delivering housing. Some 2,000 ha of land were identified and there are approximately 800 sites between local authorities, the Housing Agency and other State and semi-State bodies. Taking a conservative estimate of 25 units per hectare, that is potentially 50,000 homes. In terms of Rebuilding Ireland it is fundamental that the State and in particular housing authorities do everything in their power to deliver quality social and affordable mixed tenure housing from those sites. There are four key sites that can deliver 3,000 badly needed homes. South Dublin County Council intends to deliver approximately 900 social and affordable homes at Kilcarberry, Clondalkin. A Dublin City Council housing land initiative has sites at Infirmary Road, also known as O'Devaney Gardens, St. Michael's Estate on Emmet Road, and Oscar Traynor Road which will deliver approximately 2,000 social and affordable houses. The State will also fund 30% of social housing on those four sites, which is approximately 900 newly built social houses. They will be fully integrated into brand new housing schemes in various locations in Dublin. A total of 30 sites have been identified on State and semi-State lands amounting to 200 ha in prime locations such as Galway Port, and 18 acres at the CIE-Ceannt Station site right in the centre of Galway city which is being master planned. All of those details are available for Deputy Howlin to examine. I met the chief executive of Deputy Howlin's local authority the other day. I understand that in Enniscorthy where planning permission has been granted and everything else is ready to go the local authority has been able to provide three-bedroom social housing in approximately 13 weeks. If that is true, which I hope it is, that is an incredible operation. That suggests we might be falling foul of public procurement issues, objections and other issues causing delay in other places. When rapid build was first introduced for housing it seemed to take an inordinately long time. However, if in some local authorities, one of which I came across myself by chance, it is possible to do that if all systems are go and one can build house X and house Y in such a period the question is why we cannot do it elsewhere. The Ministers are looking at the issue with the housing unit to examine whether there are delays that could be avoided. That was the case when Deputy Howlin was in government. For one reason or another when we started to use rapid build housing it took a long time. Deputy Howlin also inquired about Government measures and funding being made available. One would get lost in the figures sometimes.
A total of €98 million was allocated in 2017 for the Rebuilding Ireland initiative. There is a target that by mid-2017 the use of hotels for emergency accommodation would be eliminated. I am assured by the Minister that the target can be met. I agree it will be a very tight timeframe.
I am sorry, a Cheann Comhairle.
I have here a list of 504 housing construction projects all over the country. This makes real sense because it puts figures and details on locations. The list is available for everyone to see on the Department's website. Instead of talking about €98 million being available for rebuilding in Ireland in 2017, one can go through the individual units that are being constructed in groups of 20 to 50. That makes real sense for people who are going to live in these houses and know that the houses will be allocated to them. Therefore I do not accept what the Deputy has said. Some 3,000 households came out of homelessness in 2016, which is a substantial increase on what was there before. The moneys that have been allocated include Dublin City Council's winter initiative which delivered 200 extra beds for rough sleepers on the streets due to high rents, and others in hotels and hostels. All of these initiatives are part of the action plan. I do not want to read out the figures for the millions being allocated, but previous measures taken by government to tackle the costs associated with the provision of housing included reduced development contributions, a development contribution rebate scheme, changes to the Part 5 regime and new apartment guidelines. They were all brought in to reduce costs because we met with the Construction Industry Federation and so many others. The Deputy knows that this city is creeping northwards, north-westwards and westwards. In another 15 years, if it continues like that, it will be out near Mullingar with single houses. Dublin City Council has its views on this. Every city in the world has buildings which exceed the maximum height allowed in Dublin. It is not for me to set a fix on this. If developers and others involved in construction say they cannot make a profit given the guidelines and height restrictions, then we should give serious consideration to building somewhat higher in order to reduce the cost of development. Profit is not a dirty word in this context because it is about providing housing accommodation for people. One cannot sell a single apartment until the block is ready for sale, however. The Deputy asked about the reduction of costs but that was dealt with in reduced development contributions, the rebate scheme, changes to part 5 and new apartment guidelines. It is all about supply and more money than ever before has been allocated in a variety of ways to make an impact on this. It is working but obviously we are catching up on a big curve here.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 3 to 6, inclusive, together. The Cabinet Committee on Regional and Rural Affairs provides a whole of government approach to growth in the rural economy as well as supporting quality of life and local service delivery in the regions. In particular, the committee is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the Action Plan for Rural Development. The committee has met four times to date. It last met on the 12 December 2016 and is due to meet again later today. A monitoring group for the Action Plan for Rural Development, chaired by the Minister, Deputy Humphreys, met on 23 March and will meet again on 20 July. The committee will continue to oversee implementation of the plan, as well as considering specific policy issues of concern to rural Ireland
Brexit took up my time.
This is an important question. The document, Realising Our Potential in Rural Ireland, is a comprehensive statement on all the Departments and agencies covering the country outside the major urban centres. It does not just include isolated parts of rural Ireland but also covers the Irish language and investment in capital infrastructure. The Deputy will be aware that there is a €42 billion capital programme to 2025, which is currently being reviewed. A number of major roads have to be finished, such as one to the northwest, including Sligo, and also to Limerick, Cork and a number of other areas. We also need to cater for future developments with the metro and the possibility of other light-rail systems in various parts of the country. That is why in addition to all of that capital money, a European Investment Bank office has been opened in Dublin. They are now examining the feasibility of quite a number of major projects as to whether or not they can go ahead, on the basis that there will be an income stream to deal with the loan repayment requirements. That would remove a major section from normal Exchequer funds which would allow for that kind of development to take place. The Minister of State, Deputy Ring, brought forward the final report of the post office hub working group to the Government. That recommended four pilot projects based on the share value and co-location model of post offices, the approval of which has been granted by the Government. While those projects have not yet been initiated, I expect they are now in the process of being considered.As Deputy Adams is aware, everybody understands the importance of the national broadband plan. The Minister, Deputy Naughten's Department is very actively engaged in the procurement process for the provision of high-speed broadband services. The timeframe for roll-out depends on a number of factors, including the complexities that may be encountered by the procurement team and bidders during the process. A timeframe of three to five year is envisaged for the roll-out once contracts are in place. A detailed roll-out plan for the network, including a prioritisation programme to target areas of particularly poor service, areas with business needs and areas of high demand, will be published once the contracts are in place. Eir set out certain commitments under the agreement announced by the Minister, Deputy Naughten. It plans to provide broadband to an additional 300,000 premises in rural areas on a commercial basis. It has committed to completing the roll-out over a 90 week period, passing an average of 500 premises per day. In line with the published agreement there are regular review meetings, the purpose of which is to monitor this roll-out to ensure Eir meets its obligations under the agreement. My understanding is that there will be penalties for Eir if it does not measure up to what it has already agreed, though I like to be updated regularly on the 500 premises that are passed every day. The roll-out for high-speed broadband is a necessary part of the programme.
The Cabinet sub-committee has not considered the question of the purchase of Luggala. I recall the Minister, Deputy Ring, making the comment that he would be interested in negotiating or discussing the possibility of a purchase of this estate. I have never been to Luggala. I have obviously seen the pictures of it.
I believe it is a magnificent house and location. The State acquired substantial grounds in that area for an expansion of the national park. Clearly when the Deputy makes her point she looks to the expansion of Dublin over the next 20 years. The Wicklow Mountains and the environment are going to be of particular importance like the Lake District is across the water, where very substantial numbers of people travel every weekend. Hopefully they observe the country code and leave nothing behind but their footprints. The State acquired another premises belonging to the Guinness Trust a number of years ago, Farmleigh, which is used extensively for everything from the Bloom festival to the country markets. The big house is available for heads of state who might stay there. I will take the Deputy's suggestion. I am quite sure that if the State were to announce that it had acquired this fine estate there would be people saying that the money should be spent on social housing. It is always about a balance.
It is an important consideration. I will have Deputy Burton's view brought to the Minister and see if he is willing to continue on from his initial comment. I did not hear the programme that the Deputy mentioned, but I admire Paddy Moloney and the Chieftains. He seems to have been around forever and ever.
He seems to get better with every performance. Matt Molloy and all of the members of the Chieftains are wonderful ambassadors for the country.
We have published-----
-----our action plan for rural development, "Realising our Rural Potential". It is divided into five pillars. The first is about supporting sustainable communities and includes: making rural Ireland a better place to live in, enhancing local services, empowering local communities and building better communities. Pillar two is about supporting enterprise and employment and includes: growing and attracting enterprise, supporting sectoral growth, skills and innovation, supporting rural jobseekers and protecting incomes. Pillar three is about maximising our rural tourism and recreation potential and includes: supporting targeted rural tourism initiatives such as the Wild Atlantic Way, the midlands and lakelands district, Ireland's Ancient East; developing and promoting activity tourism and developing and promoting our natural and built heritage. The fourth pillar is about fostering culture and creativity in rural communities and arises from the evidence of the commemoration of 1916. This pillar includes increasing access to the arts in rural communities, enhancing culture and creativity in rural Ireland and promoting the Irish language as a key resource. The fifth point is about improving rural infrastructure. That includes the capital investment plan 2016-2021, the broadband and mobile phone access to which I have referred, rural transport and flood relief measures together with all the other issues that apply from the Common Agricultural Policy right through to every part of the country. This is the document. It is very comprehensive.
I do not know whether Deputy McGrath has read it but I have covered a few subjects-----
-----that would be of genuine interest to the people of Tipperary-----
-----from rural tourism to the beautiful mountains over which I have had the privilege of walking over the last number of years and opportunities to empower local communities to avail of small and medium enterprises, local jobs and local communities.It is all contained in here, along with money to back it up. The question is making it happen.
We changed the legislation to deal with the provision of broadband between service providers. SIRO is the issue there. Eir does its work. I recall several Fianna Fáil Ministers in New York after they put Telecom Éireann on the Stock Exchange, the assets that were stripped and how it left urban and rural Ireland without any signal at all.
The Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment is on the back of this horse because we want to see broadband brought to rural Ireland once and for all, and by that I mean small town Ireland and everything else. We have had discussions about Brexit and will have more, but one piece of the jigsaw is not clear yet. We have provided the European Council with a document containing all our priorities, but the Deputy knows we cannot investigate the detail of this until we get to a point where the first phase is dealt with, namely, the principles, modalities and the liabilities that apply. The second issue is the question of borders, with our Border being a case in point that every other country in Europe now understands. The third issue is the rights and reciprocal rights of Europeans living in the UK and  We will then move on to the future structure and framework of the UK with the EU. Central to that, as the Deputy is well aware, is the question of trade and how that will apply. We must figure out how we can have the closest possible relationship between Europe and the UK, and we will be on the European side here, given that the Single Market will be gone and we still do not know the British Government's view on tariffs or the customs union. That is where the problem and challenge will arise. We share the Deputy's view on this. The Government has set up a specific unit in the Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine to deal with the question of agrifood and drink exports to Great Britain, hedging forward and support for small and medium enterprises. We are well aware of the drop of €500 million in real value terms over six months because of currency fluctuations, so the Government is very interested in this. We have 100 trade missions abroad this year to increase sales of our products in other countries. I have just come back from Canada where I spoke about elements of that. The Deputy mentioned the equine industry. It is a case in point and he is perfectly right. Those who train horses to that level do not want to have delays and to be weighed down by an inordinate amount of bureaucracy. Clearly, in respect of stud farms North and South, our relationship with the British racing industry is very close. English horses race here and win sometimes while Irish horses race in England and win more often. That industry has the potential to deliver €2 billion to the Exchequer every year. It is and will continue to be strongly supported by the Government. These are issues we must take into account in real detail when those negotiations begin.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 and 8 together. I met with the President of the Republic of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovi, in Government Buildings on 4 April as part of her three-day state visit to Ireland. During our meeting, we discussed the bilateral relationship between our two countries, EU-UK negotiations following the triggering by the UK of Article 50, and the future of Europe, including EU enlargement. President Grabar-Kitarovi also briefed me on regional issues in south-east Europe, touching on economic, political and social challenges. The Croatian President requested our advice in planning for Croatia's EU Presidency in 2020. In light of our extensive experience of seven EU Presidencies, I was pleased to be able to offer our assistance and our officials will follow up in this regard.
With regard to Deputy Burton's question about the fiscal rules, I do not accept that smaller countries are being discriminated against by the European Union. There are many different funds, including social funds, the Cohesion Fund, Common Agricultural Policy funds and so on. The Juncker plan concerns major infrastructure across countries, including transcontinental-----
-----facilities such as rail lines, major autobahns and so on. It is not a case of discriminating against small countries. Ireland voted on these fiscal rules in a referendum and 60% of voters approved the issue while 40% did not.
It was a long time ago but it is now part of the Constitution. If there has been a referendum on the issue, one cannot just change the rules again. The Labour Party has put forward a view that sufficient-----
-----resources are not being expended in capital works. We are now in a position of being able to borrow ten-year money at 0.1%.
When Deputy Burton entered Government with Fine Gael in 2011, the rate was almost 15%. It is not a case of not having access to money, it is not spending willy-nilly to a point where construction inflation increases out of all order and money goes by the tonne into the hands of developers. It is a case of having a balanced approach to the way the money is spent and the economy is managed at the same time. The referendum was approved by 60% of voters. It is part of what we accepted. Ireland was the only country to have a referendum on it. We need to move on to avail of other major projects from the European Investment Bank and so on. Deputy Adams spoke about the Croatian President. She is a very capable woman. She is a former Foreign Minister and a Fulbright scholar. She is very well clued-in to the situation across Europe and beyond. Deputy Adams described last week's meeting as shambolic. I explained at that meeting that included in the detailed document published is the outcome of the European Council meeting. That meeting, the European Parliament meeting and the European Commission meeting all agreed on one thing, which is that there are particular and unique circumstances applying to Ireland. I read Mr. Verhofstadt's article today. When I asked last week if there was any need for further discussions, there was no response because we were going to have discussions and statements in the House, which we had. I do not regard the meeting as having been shambolic. Perhaps Deputy Adams does for purposes outside this House. Who is now talking about Northern Ireland? It is the Irish Government. The Minister of State at the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Dara Murphy, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Deputy Flanagan, in their foreign affairs and European roles have spoken to every single person who has anything to do with European issues. The Minister of State had a full bilateral meeting with representatives from Croatia less than two months ago. The English are all over Europe talking about Northern Ireland. The Irish are all over Europe talking about Northern Ireland. However, nobody from Northern Ireland is doing so. The Scottish are all over Europe talking about Scotland. Who is speaking for Northern Ireland? This Government is doing so. Who is mentioning it? This Government. Who else is mentioning it? Britain is mentioning it. It is being said that there is no wish for a return to a hard border. Imagination and creativity are required to deal with this issue. We want the closest possible relationship with the United Kingdom from a European point of view. However, there is no voice from Northern Ireland being heard in Europe. The only voices to be heard are Irish and British. We are happy to continue to explain, in so far as we can, the details, the problems and the unique, particular and special circumstances that apply to Northern Ireland.
I am glad to have the opportunity to say a few words on Ireland’s negotiations on the UK’s withdrawal from the EU. As I have said previously, Brexit is a British policy, not an EU policy or an Irish policy. The Government believes it is bad for Britain, for Europe and for Ireland. It presents challenges to our peace and challenges to our prosperity. We have, however, been consistent and clear that in these negotiations Ireland will be negotiating from a position of strength as part of the EU team of 27 member states. Our work confirms that membership of the European Union has underpinned our national values, has helped our economy to prosper - not least by unhindered access to a vast Single Market - and has assisted our transition to a less isolated society that is more equal and open. It also underscores the unequivocal conclusion that Ireland's interests are best served by remaining a fully committed member of the European Union and working with our EU partners to deliver more for our citizens. At the same time we will maintain our close relationship with Britain, which reflects our unique economic, political, cultural and people-to-people links. These two essential objectives need not in any way be mutually exclusive. It is our aim, and it will continue to be in all of our interests, to emerge from the overall Brexit process with the closest possible relationship between the UK and the EU. This is something that Prime Minister May has also said that she wants. Of course, we need to see greater clarity and certainty from the British Government about how it expects that this can be achieved. Given the challenges that Brexit presents for this island, it is vital that we prepare thoroughly for its consequences, both at a national level and as part of the European Union. That is why for more than two years, we have been analysing the issues and engaging with sectors across the island of Ireland, including through the all-island dialogue, to identify our main areas of concern and to develop our priorities. These are to protect the Good Friday Agreement and the peace process, including by maintaining an open Border; to retain the common travel area; to minimise the impact on our economy; and to work for a positive future for the European Union. We have been extremely active at political and official level in engaging with our EU partners and the EU institutions. This has involved highlighting and explaining the significant implications for Ireland arising from Brexit and the need to take account of our particular concerns in the negotiations. This ensured that our unique concerns and particular circumstances regarding the UK-EU withdrawal negotiations were reflected in the EU negotiating guidelines. which were adopted by the European Council on 29 April. These are to support and protect the achievements, benefits and commitments of the peace process, to avoid a hard border and to protect the common travel area. This builds on the significance of the clear references to our specific Irish issues in Prime Minister May’s letter confirming the UK’s intention to leave the EU under Article 50, and in the European Parliament resolution on the Brexit negotiations. These outcomes are a major endorsement of the Government’s approach and a reflection of the Government’s focused campaign of strategic engagement with EU member states and the EU institutions over the past ten months, which has seen more than 400 engagements at political and official level. It was by no means a given that Ireland’s position would be seen as a priority for the negotiations but this has come about thanks to our strategic, persistent and patient work and the understanding and support of all our European partners. Furthermore, the statement agreed by the European Council acknowledges that in the event of a united Ireland brought about in accordance with the Good Friday Agreement, by peace and consent, the entire territory of such a united Ireland would legally be part of the European Union. This provides reassurance on this aspect of the Good Friday Agreement, regardless of the status of the UK within the European Union. Once the overall approach to the negotiations was set out by the European Union, the Government published its comprehensive document on Ireland and the negotiations on the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union under Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union. This document reflects the findings and outcomes of the extensive preparatory work and consultations undertaken to date and demonstrates how these will be brought to bear in Ireland’s approach to the negotiations in the weeks and months ahead. Building on our work to date, this document comprehensively sets out the positions and priorities that will underpin our engagement in the Brexit process as it unfolds over the next two years. It explains the various factors and issues that will be at play and what Ireland’s position will be. The focus of the paper is primarily on the withdrawal negotiations and the conclusion of an exit agreement with the UK, which will include addressing a number of Ireland’s specific and unique concerns. It also looks ahead to the negotiations that will shape the future relationship between the UK and the EU, which are also of critical importance to this island. With regard to the Article 50 process itself, it is vitally important that the withdrawal of the UK from the EU is done in an orderly fashion. We have consistently urged both sides to adopt a constructive approach to the negotiations. As part of the EU 27, the Government will vigorously pursue and defend Ireland’s national interests. I will now turn to the issues that are unique to Ireland. The Government has made clear its priority that there will be no visible, hard border on the island of Ireland. We will also ensure the protection of the rights of those in Northern Ireland who choose to exercise their right to hold Irish, and thus EU, citizenship and we will advocate for continued EU engagement in Northern Ireland. Along with the UK, we intend to maintain the common travel area and in this context, the recognition of existing bilateral arrangements in the EU negotiation guidelines is important in underpinning relationships across this island. Both the UK and the EU share the objective of establishing a close partnership after the UK’s departure. In light of this, it is very welcome that the EU guidelines also recognise the desirability of moving on to discuss the shape of the future relationship between the EU and the UK once sufficient progress has been made on the withdrawal issues. The recognition of the need for transitional arrangements is also very welcome. It became very clear early in the Government’s analysis of Brexit that the economic impacts of Brexit would be deep and extensive across the economy and society as a whole. Our work, therefore, has prioritised analysis and engagement on sectoral issues and how we can best manage the impact on the people, the businesses and the communities of Ireland. While in recent years we have been diversifying increasingly to other markets, Ireland is still heavily reliant on the UK as a trading partner. A number of key sectors will be impacted significantly, including, but not limited to, agrifood, fisheries, financial services, transport, energy and tourism. More generally, impacts will be seen on enterprise and trade and on Irish-owned companies in particular, as well as in the regional and rural economy. The great bulk of these issues will not be addressed in the initial withdrawal agreement, but in the subsequent EU-UK future relationship agreement or agreements. Given that the EU’s initial negotiating position is now clear, the Government will intensify its focus on the economic implications of Brexit, including on domestic policy measures to reinforce the competitiveness of the Irish economy, to protect it from potential negative impacts of Brexit and to pursue all possible opportunities that might arise. In order to underpin this, Government is now working to prepare a further paper on the economic implications of the Brexit challenge. This will draw on the work to date across Departments and will reflect the core economic themes of my speech to the Institute of International and European Affairs, the IIEA, on 15 February last.This includes sustainable fiscal policies to ensure capacity to absorb and respond to economic shocks, not least from Brexit; policies to make Irish enterprise more diverse and resilient, to diversify trade and investment patterns and to strengthen competitiveness; prioritising policy measures and dedicating resources to protect jobs and businesses in the sectors and regions most affected by Brexit; realising economic opportunities arising from Brexit and helping businesses adjust to any new logistical or trade barriers; and making a strong case at EU level that Ireland will require support and recognition of areas where Brexit represents a serious disturbance to the Irish economy. Policy decisions in support of these objectives arise across a wide range of areas, including the annual budgetary process; the forthcoming national planning framework, Ireland 2040; the new ten-year national capital plan; the review of the Enterprise 2025 policy; and sectoral policies and investment decisions in areas such as agriculture, enterprise, transport, communications and energy. It is essential that we ensure our economy is Brexit-ready, both to protect against the potential impacts of Brexit and to capitalise on any opportunities arising. In this context, I also want to mention Ireland’s bids for the two EU bodies currently located in London, namely, the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority. I believe that Ireland would be an outstanding location for each of these agencies, particularly when the priority is to ensure a smooth transition from their current location and a sustainable future path for them. This decision will be made in the autumn by the European Council. We are in competition with quite a number of other countries for the two agencies. The undertaking of our work on the negotiation process to date and on the economic implications that may follow underlines the fact that we are at the beginning, rather than the end, of what will be a long and complex process. The negotiations that we now face are among the most important in the history of the State. I recognise that there is a desire to have clarity and certainty on every detail of the future EU-UK relationship as quickly as possible. However, we need to be realistic about the process we are heading into and the time it will take to reach a full conclusion. We need to be calm, clear-eyed and strategic. The Irish Government is ready. Analysis and consultation is well under way. Our key priorities and positions are clear. We will continue to be proactive, concerted and strategic in our approach. We have in place a team of very experienced diplomats and officials. We will continue to engage with our EU partners and with stakeholders through regular ongoing consultations, including the all-island civic dialogue process, to ensure that Ireland’s concerns and priorities continue to be reflected in the EU’s negotiating position as it evolves, and that we work towards a strong and constructive future relationship with the UK. I will have further discussions on the next steps with EU Brexit negotiator and chairman of the task force, Michel Barnier, during his visit this Thursday. The Government will now examine the draft negotiating directives, ahead of considering them with our EU partners, with a view to their adoption by the General Affairs Council on 22 May, which will be attended by the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs, Deputy Dara Murphy. The adoption of the negotiating directives will mark the formal launch of the negotiations with the UK, which will begin soon after the UK’s general election on 8 June. The specifics of key negotiating points will become clear in the period ahead and the Government will work to ensure that our interests are protected as we negotiate as part of the EU 27. The Government is well prepared for the Brexit process and will continue to work to protect and promote Ireland's interests. Together with our EU partners, we will be successful in getting the best possible deal for Ireland and the EU.
I was explaining to the Minister of State, Deputy Doyle, that Gibraltar is very different from Northern Ireland.
The Minister of State will be replying to Deputy Adams.
We have more investment and jobs.
We had a referendum on the Good Friday Agreement. We will not have a hard Border - full stop.
I can confirm that there will be complete clinical independence and that the Sisters of Charity will not have a majority on the board. Ownership is a matter that requires some consideration. As a former Minister for Health, Deputy Micheál Martin will appreciate that we cannot equivocate about having the very best facilities available to expectant mothers, including co-location with an appropriate hospital that can provide expert attention, if needed. During the term of office of the last Government the decision was taken to move the National Maternity Hospital from Holles Street to the St. Vincent's Univeristy Hospital complex. I have listened to too many stories about the inadequate facilities available at Holles Street hospital in which 9,000 babies are born every year. While a planning application has not yet been lodged for the proposed new maternity hospital on the St. Vincent's University Hospital complex, the proposed structure guarantees that the very best facilities that one would expect to see in the early part of this century will be available for expectant mothers. Where these facilities are provided in Holles Street hospital they are completely unacceptable. I have listened very carefully to the words of the master of Holles Street hospital on many occasions about the difficulties there and the poor facilities available. Co-location with St. Vincent's University Hospital is obviously best practice, clinically, and will ensure that in the rare circumstances in which women need urgent care and attention, they will receive it immediately in St. Vincent's University Hospital, which is a very fine hospital. As the master of Holles Street hospital and the Minister for Health have stated, the new national maternity hospital will be completely independent, clinically and operationally. The move to St. Vincent's University Hospital was endorsed by the boards of the two hospitals last week.  It is clear that the focus now is on the issue of ownership. We can all agree on issues such as the importance of co-locating with a major hospital and the need for brand new facilities for expectant mothers and their babies. These are issues on which everybody can agree; the debate is about ownership. The Minister for Health has worked closely with both hospitals to get a deal on the new national maternity hospital. Members will recall that when the former Minister for Health, Senator James Reilly, made this decision and during the term of his successor, Deputy Leo Varadkar, there were two mediation efforts in an attempt to settle the question between the two boards. Subsequently, Mr. Kieran Mulvey negotiated a deal between the board of the St. Vincent's Trust and Holles Street hospital. The Minister for Health, Deputy Simon Harris, has asked for and been given one month by the Government to allow space for all parties to discuss further the question of ownership of the hospital. This is an issue that deserves real debate in the context of ownership of statutory and voluntary hospitals. The agreement reached between the two hospitals was that there would be a lien on the new facility in accordance with whatever funding arrangements would be put in place by the State. Different options have been used in the past in doing this and the Minister for Health believes there is potential to devise a solution that will provide absolute reassurance on the ownership of the facilities which will be paid for by the State. The Minister for Health has my support in that regard.  Across Ireland there are different hospital owners, including the HSE, voluntary charters, congregations and private companies.The Minister for Health is examining how best to put in place a process to facilitate the broader conversation that needs to be held. I can confirm the first two points raised by the Deputy in his concluding questions. On the third point, we are in the process of devising a solution to the ownership concerns. Nothing is being held up. A planning application has not yet been lodged.
That is all part of the very argument, discussion and conversation in which the Minister for Health is engaging. Is it a fact that every time facilities are provided by the State the State has to own the building and the land? As the Deputy is aware, having allowed it to drift when he served as Minister for Health and Children-----
-----there is agreement that the National Maternity Hospital in Holles Street is not up to standard.
The Deputy knows that to be the case.
The master of the National Maternity Hospital and her predecessors have said it. The decision to move the hospital to the St. Vincent's University Hospital complex was taken by the previous Government. The land is owned by the trust mentioned. Deputy Micheál Martin has said the new hospital should be in public ownership. There are very strong opinions that that should be so, but the land is not owned by the State. Is the Deputy suggesting it should be acquired by means of a compulsory purchase order?
Okay. That is off. Is the Deputy suggesting the sisters should hand it over to the State?
That is an option. Is the Deputy suggesting there should be long-term leases? That is an option.
We can all agree that expectant mothers should have world-class facilities, that expert attention should be provided when there are complications with births and that the plans I have seen, which I announced with the Minister and the HSE, are absolutely world-class and first-class. The plans include private rooms and all the facilities expectant mothers should have in this day and age. I suggest we should focus on the issues. There will be complete and utter clinical independence. They will have no majority on the board. In the coming weeks we should discuss how best we can bring about a solution to the concerns about ownership that have been validly expressed. The Minister is focusing on this issue as a priority and he has the full backing of the Government in that regard.
I thank the Deputy for raising this matter. Garda Tony Golden was shot dead on the evening of Sunday, 11 October 2015 in Omeath, County Louth. He was 36 years old and married with three young children. He was stationed in Omeath and lived in Blackrock outside Dundalk. He was the 88th member of the Garda force to die in the service of his country. As the Deputy said, he was responding to a domestic incident in Omeath at the home of Mr. Adrian Crevan Mackin and his partner Siobhán Phillips. Obviously, Ms Phillips had gone to the Garda in Omeath on the Sunday with her father and expressed her fear that Mr. Mackin was going to kill her and himself. Garda Golden escorted her and her father to the property to collect her personal items. When she and Garda Golden entered the house, Mr. Mackin shot her, Garda Golden and then himself with an illegally held handgun. Ms Phillips' father who had remained outside then telephoned the emergency services. Garda Golden and Mr. Mackin were dead at the scene, while Ms Phillips, as the Deputy is aware, suffered serious gunshot wounds to the head and was hospitalised. I am glad to say she is recovering. The Garda is carrying out a full investigation. The Garda Commissioner has made it clear that it will take into account the full range of circumstances surrounding the shootings. Mr. Mackin who was from Newry was well known to the Garda. He had several previous convictions in Northern Ireland, including for firearms offences for which he had been sentenced and released on licence. In January 2015 he had been charged before the Special Criminal Court with membership of an illegal organisation, following his arrest in an intelligence-led Garda operation. He had been released on bail pending trial. The truth of the allegations made here has not been established. There are ongoing processes to do that which are set out clearly in law. I urge against the making of hasty judgments.All of the concerns raised with me and the Tánaiste by Deputy Adams were quickly brought to the attention of and pursued by the Garda authorities in the context of their ongoing investigation and review process into the shootings and related matters. The Tánaiste expects to receive a final report from the Garda authorities addressing these matters when the investigation and review are completed. The Tánaiste was also made aware in February last year by a firm of solicitors acting for Mr. Mackin's family that related matters had been brought to the attention of the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, GSOC. It announced its decision recently to initiate a public interest investigation into certain matters and it indicates this public interest investigation will take place alongside the ongoing investigation of complaints made previously. I welcome this action by GSOC and its investigations must be allowed to take their course so the truth or otherwise of certain allegations made can be established quite independently. Without seeking to prejudge the issues involved, it would be of huge importance to learn anything that can be learned from the tragic events in Omeath. The GSOC investigation will be of considerable assistance in this regard. I will make a final point. It is important to make the point that decisions in respect of the prosecution of offences are a matter for the Director of Public Prosecutions, DPP, who is fully independent in accordance with the law in discharging these functions. The office of the DPP is far better placed than anybody in the House to decide on the bringing of criminal charges in any given case and is uniquely well placed, with the relevant experience to make a determination as to what convictions are likely to be secured on the basis of the assessment before it.
There are two ongoing investigations. There is the investigation by the Garda into all the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate and tragic death of Garda Tony Golden and the shooting of himself by Mr. Mackin. Separately, arising from information made available by a firm of solicitors in February last year, there is a GSOC investigation ongoing. It is only appropriate because this is a sensitive and tragic case for the Golden family that these investigations are now proceeding in parallel, and they should be allowed to proceed in parallel and be brought to a conclusion. The Tánaiste expects to get a report from the Garda Síochána in respect of that at the earliest possible opportunity. I would appreciate having the opportunity to assess the information that will come from these investigations. They are formal investigations and, in the case of GSOC, they are completely independent in the way the position is assessed. The DPP follows through with prosecutions. The Deputy says all the information has been in the hands of the authorities. As he is aware, there is information and allegations about issues, and that is what the investigation is about. Mr. Tony Golden has been taken from us, shot dead in the line of duty and in service to his country. Mr. Mackin then turned the gun on himself, having grievously wounded Ms Phillips. The Garda investigation is ongoing and parallel to that is the GSOC investigation.The Minister for Justice and Equality will receive that report as soon as possible. Let us wait and see what comes from that and what we can learn from the determination of information that stands up, as against allegations which might not.
The Deputy asked about the Government's position on this matter. First, the Fine Gael Party has always valued the public service and the work that public servants do. I have highlighted that in the recent past in respect of negotiations with our European colleagues and previously during the EU Presidency, when we highlighted at all times the value, effort and unstinting commitment and dedication of public servants. The Government's position on this matter is that we should first wait to receive the report of the Public Service Pay Commission. The Minister has not received that and he has not made any comment, good, bad or indifferent, about it. Reports of what it contains are writings that I and no member of the Government have seen.
When the report is presented to the Minister he will bring it to the Cabinet, as is his responsibility. It will be published, discussed and debated. The only comment I wish to make in respect of the public service pensions issue the Deputy mentioned is that in December last year the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform stated: "The value of public service pensions has clearly increased in recent years and this is why the work of the Public Service Pay Commission is going to be so important".That is the position. We have not received the report. It is due to be received shortly. When it is received, the Minister will bring it to Cabinet, the Government will consider it, it will be published and it will be debated in the House.
I can confirm to the Deputy that the Minister has not received the report.
I can confirm that the Government has not been presented with any initial draft assumptions on the report. I can confirm to the Deputy that when the report is received-----
-----by the Minister, he will bring it to Cabinet, as the Deputy did with various other reports. It will be discussed by the Cabinet, decisions will be made and the report will be published and debated. I repeat that the Deputy's allegation of a dog whistle in respect of public service and public servants is false. This party, as a political party, and the Government, as a Government, values the work of public servants and their commitment and dedication to serving our country in many areas.
The article is an article in a newspaper. The Government and Minister have neither seen nor received the report. The Minister will receive it in due course and bring it to Cabinet where it will be debated and a decision will be made. It will be published and debated in the House. I do not deal in conjecture, as the Deputy knows.
Deputy Healy-Rae raises three valid questions on cataracts, orthodontics and home help hours. He knows some of the people involved and that is why he is raising them. This is not confined to County Kerry and these challenges face the health service generally throughout the country. In respect of cataracts and orthodontic treatment, decisions are made by people who are qualified to make decisions as to when operations should be carried out. It is not good to have people living on their own or otherwise who do not have the opportunity to look at television or read the local newspaper or whatever. However, there have been improvements in the cataract situation.
The Minister has pointed out on a number of occasions in the House in reply to questions from Deputies Danny Healy-Rae and Michael Healy-Rae the improvements that have been made and the areas where cataract operations are being carried out in other hospitals also. We will get the figures for County Kerry for the information of Deputy Healy-Rae to see what the improvement there has been.
The situation in respect of orthodontic treatment is nothing new. Issues of delay, in particular for young people who can be very sensitive about orthodontic requirements, arises every couple of years. All the orthodontic decisions are made by qualified orthodontists. The extensive waiting lists of the past have been reduced and there is a difference where it is a matter of carrying out a non-orthodontic but urgent dental procedure. The HSE has made inroads into the general orthodontic situation that applies nationally and we will get the figures for County Kerry for Deputy Healy-Rae. Extra money has been allocated for home help and extra hours are being worked. It is a matter for the director of services in the Kerry area to define for the Deputy what extra help, if any, is being given in respect of home help. The overall allocation has increased and the number of hours has increased. Deputy Danny Healy-Rae is right to say that it is not good that somebody is left over a long weekend without attention but in general home help hours form part of a process of looking after people who are on their own and also need to be looked after by their broader families. In many cases, a roster is worked out of which home help is an essential part. Again, the information will be provided to Deputy Danny Healy-Rae as to the general situation for home help hours in County Kerry.
The Deputy mentioned three people, namely, an 85 year old man, a 70 year old and a 62 year old. They are all people whom the Deputy knows, which is why he is raising the cases. The figures are very important. It is true to say the moneys given to the health Vote this year are higher than ever before, and responsibility for this has been transferred back into the Department for Health so transparency and accountability can follow. I do not know whether the Deputy has met the director of services for home help in Kerry and asked whether the service is aware of the situation whereby people have been left at weekends without home help. I also do not know whether the Deputy has met the medical personnel dealing with the waiting list for cataract operations in Kerry and pointed out the Sligo model. These are all qualified medical people who make decisions on these matters. Yes, there has been a waiting list, and there should not be, and it is not right that people cannot watch their favourite television programme or read their local paper, but the situation has improved and I will send the Deputy the figures. We will bring to the attention of the medically qualified people in Kerry who deal with orthodontics the success of the Sligo model, but they know this already.
This arises every year because of the approval of a new drug for a specific or rare challenge that patients may experience throughout the country. Everybody is well aware now of the long and complicated process to deal with Kalydeco and Orkambi for cystic fibrosis patients throughout the country, which has been extraordinarily expensive. However, we cannot put a price on quality of life. Deputy Healy-Rae said that every life has to be treated the same. The process that the Minister for Health undertook partly concerns the issue that Deputy Martin raised. What do we do about very expensive drugs that appear on the approved list in the time ahead? We do not know the scale of it at this stage. The Minister had to meet with the drugs companies and work out some sense of stability and permanence over a ten year period for a portfolio of drugs that they may produce. In the final decision on the cystic fibrosis treatments there was a significant reduction, and therefore saving for the taxpayer, arising from the conclusion reached. That kind of operation allows further funding for new drugs that come on. Decisions have to made here about these drugs.  The day after the cystic fibrosis decision it was reported that there are 35 or 40 new drugs on the way which will treat very specialist, rare diseases and which will probably be extraordinarily expensive. We have to work out how best that might be dealt with in the context of the overall allocation available to the Minister.
The Minister for Health, Deputy Simon Harris, expects to come back to the Government in the next three to four weeks, with the issue of the national maternity hospital being the central focus. I want Deputy Louise O'Reilly to understand everybody here supports the women of Ireland, including expectant mothers and their babies, in having proper facilities. That is why we are proposing to build a new hospital. As planning permission has not yet been applied for, there is no question of contracts being signed. The key is having utter clinical independence from religious influence, of which I have already given confirmation. We are now concerned with how we arrive at that situation and deal with the ownership issue which we want to demonstrate beyond yea or nay in order that everybody will be quite clear that the hospital will operate in the interests of mothers and their babies.
If there are complications, people need to know that there will be a very good hospital adjacent to the maternity hospital to deal with them. Deputy Louise O'Reilly also asked if legislation would be brought to the floor of the House, but where else would one bring it?
If legislation is proposed by the Minister for Health, the Cabinet will approve the drafting of the heads and the Bill will go for pre-legislative scrutiny in the normal way, a change the Government brought about to facilitate Deputies such as Deputy Louise O'Reilly. Legislation will be brought to the House, which is where legislation is debated, approved and passed.
This matter has been raised on a number of occasions in the period since the Minister for Finance indicated that it was the intention of the Government to test the market in respect of the sale of a portion of Allied Irish Banks, the vast majority of the shares of which are owned by the State.The windows for that are very evident and the Minister intends to proceed to deal with that. He has commented on that through replies to questions in the Dáil in the past, as I have also. This is, if one likes, a paper transfer of assets and will be used for writing down debt. The review of the capital programme, which as the Deputy is aware is quite extensive, is already commencing. In addition, the opening of the European Investment Bank office in Dublin allows specifically for extra investment for infrastructure and also for investment in small and medium-sized enterprises.
In respect of major pieces of infrastructure where a stream in income will be applicable-----
-----to pay for the loans, it will remove that element of capital from the Exchequer requirement which will allow for further works to be carried out. In addition to that, as the Deputy knows, the Government is planning for Ireland in 2030 and 2040-----
----- with 1 million extra people and 500,000 extra houses. Where will they live and how will we transport them? What are the requirements for educational and medical facilities, and so on?
The Minister will keep the House updated on that.
It is a valid question. Obviously, on a number of occasions in the House the Minister has dealt with the issuing of prescriptions and treatment for particular ailments. Even if he were so willing he cannot under compassionate grounds issue an instruction for particular medicine to be distributed because it requires a prescription from an authorised clinical person. I read the account of Deputy Gino Kenny's involvement in this. In this Dáil, because of the number of Independents and smaller groupings, there were legitimate claims that backbenchers have not had enough time or opportunity to put forward their views about Private Members' Bills. Some 140 Private Members' Bills are now backed up and Government has not objected to those. However, it is a matter for the parties and groupings to decide which of those 140 Bills they actually want to prioritise. The Deputy asked me to give him a date for the taking of the next Stage of his Bill. I ask him to deal with this through the process of doing business here. The Deputy's Bill is now one of 140 Bills listed for decision. It is not my function to determine the date of this, but it is a function of everybody. On a scale that never arose in any previous Dáil, Members have the opportunity to put forward Private Members' Bills, with time to debate and discuss them, for very valid reasons, as Deputy Gino Kenny, the author of a Bill, has done. It is not a case of the Government determining the date for taking a Bill here. The Deputy should raise that through the process that applies for Bills coming through every week, with 140 backed up.
The Minister for Health has gone to exceptional lengths to improve the position. Young trained nurses coming out of Irish hospitals are given full-time contracts.
The Minister has also made available incentives for nurses to return home to work in Ireland. I do not accept the figure Deputy Butler mentioned that 85% of trained nurses coming out of the Irish system are emigrating. Some people will want to go abroad to work for experience, as all young people do. However, the situation is much better than it was-----
-----in respect of the opportunity and incentive for young nurses coming out of the system, who are very highly trained and are in demand to work in the Irish hospital system.The decision to which Deputy Cahill referred about the psychiatric bed situation in County Tipperary was made quite a number of years ago. It is a situation that can be worked out. If there is a new facility up the road and another one is closing down, is it not a case of asking what the best option is to provide facilities for people?
A new unit was not built to remain empty and unused.
It was built for a purpose. That purpose should be followed through on. Some of these matters are relevant to the Topical Issue debate. I do not have the details of them here. I will respond to the Deputies who raised questions about Dungarvan, Clonmel and Cashel and have the Deputies supplied with that information.
I will have the Minister respond to this. The capital review takes into account major infrastructure such as roads, dual carriageways and motorways. We cannot plan ahead for the country unless we look 15 or 20 years out. That is what the Government has started now with consultations in every part of the country. We will have an extra 1 million people and will require half a million houses on top of the already serious demands that are there. In one way this is a real challenge of success where the line of investment in is exceptionally strong. That is proved by announcements every week by firms wishing to site here and by the expansion of existing firms. It is a timely observation. Transport is not missing the capital review. It is always the case in terms of public transport. We see the ongoing works with the Luas in Dublin. The requirements for future investment of that scale in different parts of the country can be funded in part by the European Investment Bank provided agreement can be reached on structures and income streams to pay for those loans. I will have the Minister, Deputy Ross, made aware of Deputy Lahart's question and reply directly to him with regard to the schedule for dealing with this.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 6, inclusive, together. My visit to Germany from 5 to 7 April included a bilateral meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel as well as extensive engagement with key trade, tourism and investment partners. The visit began in Frankfurt on the morning of Thursday, 6 April where I had a series of meetings with Irish State agency client companies based in Germany. I officially opened the offices of the Irish company, Collen Construction, before giving a keynote speech at an event attended by more than 150 guests. In my remarks, I emphasised the links between Ireland and Germany and our support for further strengthening investment, trade and tourism between our two countries. That afternoon, I travelled to Berlin where I had a very positive and constructive bilateral meeting with Chancellor Merkel in the Federal Chancellery. Our discussions included Brexit, the future direction of Europe and EU-US relations. On Brexit, we discussed the draft EU negotiating guidelines which were circulated on 31 March following Prime Minister May’s official notification on 29 March of the UK’s intention to leave the European Union. These guidelines were agreed by the European Council on Saturday and I will speak about them in more detail during my statement to the House later this afternoon. In my discussions with Chancellor Merkel about the Brexit negotiations, I said nothing should undermine peace and stability in Northern Ireland and that it is therefore crucial to avoid a return to a hard Border. This is a political challenge and we will need to be creative and imaginative in finding solutions, while respecting our EU obligations. Chancellor Merkel acknowledged Ireland’s unique concerns and offered her strong support in ensuring that these were reflected in the guidelines. The language in the guidelines and, indeed, in the notification letter from Prime Minister May is a positive outcome of the Government’s approach and intensive programme of strategic engagement with EU partners and the EU institutions over recent months. Germany, like Ireland, has significant and complex trading links with the UK. We both agreed these should be maintained with minimum disruption and that we should work together to protect jobs, growth and investment. In exchanging views on the negotiations ahead, we agreed these should be approached in a calm and constructive manner with the aim of achieving a close and positive future relationship between the EU and the UK. More generally, on the future direction of Europe, I highlighted the importance we attach to maintaining EU 27 unity, based on our core values and the need for a balanced response to current challenges with a focus on better delivery for our citizens, particularly in jobs, growth and competitiveness. The following day, I participated in a round table event organised by the Association of German Chambers of Commerce, which facilitated a useful exchange about the impact of Brexit from the Irish and German business perspective. I also met with a group of German think tanks active on European, foreign and economic policy issues which enabled me to explain and discuss Ireland’s perspectives on Brexit and the future direction of Europe. Later that day, I launched the Bord Bia Irish beef food truck and met with a major premium wholesaler which supplies Irish-sourced products. In all my meetings, I highlighted and explained Ireland’s particular concerns arising from Brexit for our trade and economy; Northern Ireland and the peace process; the common travel area; Border and citizenship issues; and the future direction of the European Union. I placed particular emphasis on our strong ongoing commitment to EU membership and our intention to work constructively and calmly as part of the EU 27 team towards a close and positive future relationship with the United Kingdom. 
Chancellor Merkel raised a number of questions specifically about the Border situation, given that we do not yet know the trading relationships that will apply between the UK and the EU and between ourselves and the UK. In so far as clarity was possible, we were very clear that the political principle here is not to return to the Border of the past. The priorities for Ireland were mentioned specifically in the letter from the British Prime Minister triggering Article 50. They were also mentioned specifically in the document produced by the European Parliament and in the draft guidelines circulated by the European Council. I do not know of anybody who has claimed that this was some kind of coup. I would make the point that very dedicated public officials at COREPER and official levels have worked very assiduously and hard in Belfast, London, Brussels and here to bring about a realisation of the particular and special circumstances and the unique case of this country. Deputy Adams is well aware that the situation in so far as Northern Ireland is concerned is that this Republic voted in a referendum to remove Articles 2 and 3 from the Irish Constitution and in support of the Good Friday Agreement, which makes clear that the Six Counties are part of the United Kingdom until or unless the people of Northern Ireland decide to do something about that. In that respect, we have always discussed the question of the special status, the particular circumstances and the unique situation that applies in Northern Ireland. What is now written into the European Council's bedrock for negotiations is that if at some time in the future the people of Northern Ireland decide to do that, they will not have to apply to re-join the European Union.
I am not going to comment on leaks in newspapers or on what has been written about this. The situation in so far as the 27 members of the European Council is concerned is that there is a very clear position of not in any way wishing to punish the United Kingdom for a democratic decision that was made by its people and on which the British Government wishes to follow through. There is a realisation that it has now got to be dealt with in a respectful, understanding, constructive and positive way. I have always made that case, both to the Prime Minister and to the European Council. Clearly the step by step approach that has been set out is critical from a European Union point of view. The Prime Minister has called an election in Great Britain. It is expected - although one can never pre-judge the outcome of an election - that she will receive an increased mandate. That allows her to do a few things, if she wishes, including making new appointments to Cabinet. It will also, from her point of view, give her a clearer hand in negotiating on Brexit. However, that does not change the issues that need to be dealt with in the negotiations. The first part is what is required under Article 50, namely to deal with the exit process and there are three particular items in that context. The first is the liability that arises from membership of the European Union, for past membership and requirements into the future by the United Kingdom. There was no discussion in Brussels on Saturday about the scale of that liability; nor were any figures mentioned. The discussion was about principles and methodologies to arrive at that. The second issue is the rights of EU citizens who live in Great Britain and the rights of British citizens who live in other EU member states, including here in Ireland. Obviously, in our case it is understood and accepted that we have had a common travel area since 1922, with acquired rights not just to travel but to residency, work and opportunities in respect of social welfare. That is a matter of bilateral discussion between our two countries. Since other countries joined the EU, many of their citizens now live in Britain. What are their rights and what issues need to be dealt with in that context? Reciprocal to that is the question of the rights of citizens of Great Britain living in France, Spain or elsewhere in the EU. The third issue, which interests us directly, is the question of borders. What do we do if we agree that there should not be a return to the hard Border which brought about sectarianism, violence, terrorism and all of that? These are three matters that the EU wishes to have dealt with very early on in the negotiations. We do not want a situation where, for instance, others might claim that Ireland has become a sort of bargaining chip because of an agreement in respect of the special circumstances that apply here because of the Border.
I have made it clear that Ireland always wishes to comply with EU law. That has been our position for quite a long time.
On the common travel area, we are very clear that the acquired rights of Irish and British people in Ireland and the UK have applied since 1922 and are very much-----
We expect to be able to preserve the common travel area. I have made that point very clearly, as has the British Prime Minister.
The common travel area was in place long before the formation of the European Economic Community, EEC and the EU and long before Brexit.We intend to be able to hold on to the common travel area between Ireland and Britain. On what it means in practice, I welcome the helpful statement from the former First Minister, Arlene Foster. We would like to be able to preserve the tariff-free arrangement that now applies. Clearly, the negotiations in this area could become quite complex, depending on the issues involved, but it is too early to say what its exact nature will be. A wealth of information will need to be teased out when we open the box dealing with trade issues and tariffs. We agree with the Prime Minister when she says she wants Great Britain to have as close as possible a working relationship with the European Union. If that implies tariff-free arrangements, so much the better. We agree with that sentiment and would like to see it continued in practice. The Deputy is right when he says I said we would publish a more detailed document. I considered doing so last week, but I thought it better to wait for the outcome of the European Council in order that its decision could be incorporated into the document. I will brief Opposition leaders later this evening. We will publish the much more detailed statement today and it will be available to Deputy Micheál Martin.
Yes, today.
That is a good question. I did not want to call all of the Deputies together on a bank holiday Monday to give them a briefing on what had happened on Saturday or Sunday.
We did not know the outcome of the European Council meeting until Saturday.
I could have published a much broader document about where we were headed and briefed the Deputies on such a document. If I had done so, the Deputies would have argued that its contents could change, depending on the decision to be taken on Saturday by the European Council.
Now we have the same document, added to by the decision of the European Council. The Ceann Comhairle is familiar with what politicians do here. Deputy Gerry Adams was talking about coups and all the rest of it. Perhaps he knows something about that, but as far as I am concerned, this is work that was undertaken for the past 18 months.
I am glad that 26 members of the European Council agreed with Ireland on Northern Ireland becoming part of the European Union without having to reapply.
It should be noted here that Brexit is not the end of the line. The European Union has its own agenda which involves the Single Market, the digital single market, the capital markets and EMU. It wants a future of continued prosperity, peace and career and other opportunities for millions of people in a world that is changing rapidly as a result of digitisation which has been referred to as the fourth industrial revolution.
We have to go beyond and through Brexit. The accident that has happened here has implications nationally, internationally and globally and we must deal with it. The agenda for the European Union is for the future beyond Brexit. While I respect the democratic decision of the United Kingdom, I genuinely regret that so much of the time of the leaders of 500 million people is being taken up in dealing with this situation.  I will respond to Deputy Brendan Howlin's question about sectoral issues by saying it has been made perfectly clear to the UK authorities that there will be no cherry-picking.
The EU 27 will negotiate as a bloc with the United Kingdom. Many theories are being put forward by academics and those who have worked in various sectors, but it is clear that the closest possible relationship we can have is the relationship we now have. How will we be able to get back to it if the United Kingdom leaves the Single Market and has a different position where trading, the customs union and the WTO rules are concerned? Deputy Brendan Howlin has made a valid point about ports. One of the opportunities the European Investment Bank will present relates to the capacity to invest in serious infrastructure here once there is a line of investment to actually repay those loans and have conditions set by which that would apply.
Exactly. It is about having the opportunity to do so. As this argument continues, every country in Europe is quite well aware that Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark would be most adversely affected by what is termed a "hard Brexit". When I discussed this issue in The Hague with Prime Minister Rutte and Prime Minister Rasmussen, we made it very clear that we understood the impact something like this would have on our small countries. The ground rules have now been set. They encompass all of Ireland's particular priorities. It is a case of moving on to economics and trade. That is the next step. I hope to come back to the Government within a month with propositions in that regard.
The priorities have been agreed to by the EU 27 and in the letter sent from Prime Minister May to the President of the Council.Yes, we can have a debate here, as we will have on numerous occasions about elements of Brexit. On Saturday, the 27 were anxious not to have a long and acrimonious internal discussion which would send out a signal that Europe itself did not have the capacity to agree on a structure and guidelines with which to negotiate. Those guidelines in the discussion were intense, extensive and went on for a long period. On behalf of Ireland, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs who attend the General Affairs Council meetings, as well as our public servants, ambassadors and diplomats who have worked not just within Europe but beyond to get out Ireland's message. There was not anything further to discuss about the guidelines 
There were some further elements under discussion which I raised myself in respect of Northern Ireland and its re-entry without having to re-apply in the event that, by consent and democratic means, a referendum is passed in Northern Ireland wishing to join the Republic as a united Ireland. The Deputy's point about East Germany is true. However, Ireland is in a slightly different position in that Northern Ireland is currently a member of the European Union and is the subject of an international legally binding agreement which was not the case with East Germany. There is a clear case which I am glad was accepted by the other 26 member states. I have to be optimistic that, despite the fact we did not want this and we did not cause this, it has happened and we must deal with it. Through these Brexit negotiations, complex and difficult that they may be, we have to move on with the agenda for the European Union of the Single Market, the digital Single Market and its potential in a changing world, along with the future for prosperity, investment and job opportunities.
I remain focused and positive about the fact we can get the best outcome for our people, for our country, for our economy and jobs, as well as the issues I have identified as priorities.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 and 8 together. The economic division of my Department supports the Taoiseach and the Government in developing and implementing economic policy aimed at sustainable economic growth and development. It has a particular focus on jobs, competitiveness, trade and investment, tourism and the economic impacts of Brexit, as well as other international developments. It is also responsible for housing matters and for economic infrastructure. It supports the work of four Cabinet committees and related senior officials groups, seeking to maximise the effectiveness of their work. These are the Cabinet committees on economy, trade and jobs; housing; infrastructure, the environment and climate action; and regional and rural affairs.  It supports implementation of the Government’s Action Plans for Jobs, Housing and Homelessness, and Rural Development, and co-ordinates Ireland’s participation in the European semester process. Preparation of the national reform programme and the national risk assessment are also undertaken. The division acts as my Department's liaison point with the Central Statistics Office, CSO, on certain administrative functions, and provides support, as required, to the Minister of State, Deputy Regina Doherty, who has been delegated responsibility for the CSO. The division plays a role in supporting the Government in its approach to long-term challenges as set out in the programme for Government and in the delivery of key infrastructure including housing, broadband, transport, energy and water. The division works with relevant Departments to oversee Ireland's transition to a low-carbon economy.
In respect of the comment made by Deputy Micheál Martin about the CSO, the Department of Social Protection estimated savings from control and fraud, not just fraud. It was based on a model developed with the CSO and also used in Australia, as well as other OECD countries. The Department of Social Protection stands over this. With regard to the CSO figures on house builds-----
Even in the time of a former Government-----
-----of which Deputy Micheál Martin was a member, house builds were always determined on ESB house connections.
There is a different model with the CSO. The economic unit of the Department deals with certain administrative functions and supports the Minister of State, Deputy Regina Doherty. It deals with regular parliamentary questions. The CSO is an independent national institute dealing with statistics. The Statistics Act 1993 underpins that. The Act provides the director general will have the sole responsibility for and be independent in the exercise of the functions of deciding the statistical methodology and professional statistical standards used by the office; the content of statistical releases and publications issued by the office; and the timing and methods of dissemination of statistics compiled by the office. The Minister of State, Deputy Regina Doherty and I have no role or function in that. In that regard, it pointed out from its model that the issue, in so far as house builds are concerned, was that for years Governments have used electricity connections to determine the number.The Minister will take note of the Central Statistics Office, CSO, figures. The action plan for housing, with the five designated pillars, has an unprecedented extent both of incentive, innovative opportunity and money available to it. We are trying to catch up from a position where the construction sector collapsed completely from building 90,000 houses per year to 9,000 houses per year.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 9 to 12 inclusive. The British-Irish and Northern Ireland affairs section of the amalgamated international, European Union and Northern Ireland division supports the work of the Taoiseach and Government in helping maintain peace and manage relationships on the island of Ireland and between Britain and Ireland, particularly in the context of Brexit. The division deals with all aspects of British-Irish relations, including Northern Ireland affairs and North-South co-operation. It also deals with key policy issues in this context and is responsible for supporting the Taoiseach in co-ordinating a whole-of-government approach to Brexit. My Department, as with the rest of Government, has operated a highly consultative approach on Brexit to date, during which we have engaged very extensively with stakeholders across all sectors of Irish society. This has included the all-island civic dialogue process that has, to date, held two major plenary sessions in Dublin Castle and 14 sectoral events examining specific policy areas in greater detail. In addition, nearly 300 separate meetings with industry and civic society have been held to deepen our analysis and research. At the civic dialogue events and a range of other events, senior civil servants in this Department have worked to communicate publicly the Government's work on Brexit in terms of the extensive planning undertaken, as well as to map the next stages to the Brexit process. It is envisaged this work will continue both in individual meetings when requested or speaking at events when appropriate. As I have pointed out, the next stage after concluding last Saturday's meeting is to move to trade and economics, including the issues that will help to underpin the sustainability and stability of Irish firms in a vulnerable position. The public communications work is also supported by the larger Brexit communications work that the Government is undertaking, which is available for people to read at 
Come on lads.
It is regrettable the Executive is not up and running. The election took place and members were elected to the Assembly. There was time to put together an Executive but that did not happen. I do not have control over that. The British election was suddenly called by the British Prime Minister, which obviously directly impacts the position in Northern Ireland and between ourselves and Britain. With regard to Deputy Martin's comments, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade has been in Northern Ireland for very extensive periods and dealing directly with Secretary of State James Brokenshire. He is available any time, if necessary, to either go to Northern Ireland or Downing Street to speak with the British Prime Minister. Equally, the British Prime Minister has committed to being engaged in that regard. I know Deputy Martin understands that. I saw the comments from former First Minister Foster and they have been helpful. It is regrettable the North-South Ministerial Council cannot meet because there are no Ministers from an Executive.
It has always proven to be a worthwhile body for issues that needed to be discussed. It is expected all the parties in Northern Ireland will again be around the table the day after the election.I hope that a renewed sense of understanding just how important this is will prevail there and that they get the Executive up and running. In response to Deputy Howlin, I do not have an objection to senior public servants taking opportunities, where they arise publicly, to deal with matters. However, as the Deputy is aware, under the system here one gets very extensive briefings from senior Ministers. They are delivered in political fora both here and abroad. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs deal with the General Affairs Council and they have extensive, detailed briefings on these matters. I do not have an objection Deputy Adams raised the question of a united Ireland. I have seen the comments about a second New Ireland Forum and what that might involve. However, there is already a facility in the Oireachtas, the Joint Committee on the Implementation of the Good Friday Agreement, which could lead on discussing both the issues that are not fulfilled in the Good Friday Agreement and what the future might look like in the context of a decision that might be taken at some time in the future by the people of Northern Ireland and what that would involve in terms of different jurisdictions, different educational issues, different judicial systems, how it might be catered for in terms of economics and so forth. There is no reason that we should not use that committee to examine both the issues that are not yet fulfilled and also a brave new future that might lie ahead, provided the people of Northern Ireland choose by consent to make a democratic decision to join with the Republic of Ireland on an island that is part of the European Union of the future.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 6, inclusive, together. My visit to Germany from 5 to 7 April included a bilateral meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel as well as extensive engagement with key trade, tourism and investment partners. The visit began in Frankfurt on the morning of Thursday, 6 April where I had a series of meetings with Irish State agency client companies based in Germany. I officially opened the offices of the Irish company, Collen Construction, before giving a keynote speech at an event attended by more than 150 guests. In my remarks, I emphasised the links between Ireland and Germany and our support for further strengthening investment, trade and tourism between our two countries. That afternoon, I travelled to Berlin where I had a very positive and constructive bilateral meeting with Chancellor Merkel in the Federal Chancellery. Our discussions included Brexit, the future direction of Europe and EU-US relations. On Brexit, we discussed the draft EU negotiating guidelines which were circulated on 31 March following Prime Minister May’s official notification on 29 March of the UK’s intention to leave the European Union. These guidelines were agreed by the European Council on Saturday and I will speak about them in more detail during my statement to the House later this afternoon. In my discussions with Chancellor Merkel about the Brexit negotiations, I said nothing should undermine peace and stability in Northern Ireland and that it is therefore crucial to avoid a return to a hard Border. This is a political challenge and we will need to be creative and imaginative in finding solutions, while respecting our EU obligations. Chancellor Merkel acknowledged Ireland’s unique concerns and offered her strong support in ensuring that these were reflected in the guidelines. The language in the guidelines and, indeed, in the notification letter from Prime Minister May is a positive outcome of the Government’s approach and intensive programme of strategic engagement with EU partners and the EU institutions over recent months. Germany, like Ireland, has significant and complex trading links with the UK. We both agreed these should be maintained with minimum disruption and that we should work together to protect jobs, growth and investment. In exchanging views on the negotiations ahead, we agreed these should be approached in a calm and constructive manner with the aim of achieving a close and positive future relationship between the EU and the UK. More generally, on the future direction of Europe, I highlighted the importance we attach to maintaining EU 27 unity, based on our core values and the need for a balanced response to current challenges with a focus on better delivery for our citizens, particularly in jobs, growth and competitiveness. The following day, I participated in a round table event organised by the Association of German Chambers of Commerce, which facilitated a useful exchange about the impact of Brexit from the Irish and German business perspective. I also met with a group of German think tanks active on European, foreign and economic policy issues which enabled me to explain and discuss Ireland’s perspectives on Brexit and the future direction of Europe. Later that day, I launched the Bord Bia Irish beef food truck and met with a major premium wholesaler which supplies Irish-sourced products. In all my meetings, I highlighted and explained Ireland’s particular concerns arising from Brexit for our trade and economy; Northern Ireland and the peace process; the common travel area; Border and citizenship issues; and the future direction of the European Union. I placed particular emphasis on our strong ongoing commitment to EU membership and our intention to work constructively and calmly as part of the EU 27 team towards a close and positive future relationship with the United Kingdom. 
Chancellor Merkel raised a number of questions specifically about the Border situation, given that we do not yet know the trading relationships that will apply between the UK and the EU and between ourselves and the UK. In so far as clarity was possible, we were very clear that the political principle here is not to return to the Border of the past. The priorities for Ireland were mentioned specifically in the letter from the British Prime Minister triggering Article 50. They were also mentioned specifically in the document produced by the European Parliament and in the draft guidelines circulated by the European Council. I do not know of anybody who has claimed that this was some kind of coup. I would make the point that very dedicated public officials at COREPER and official levels have worked very assiduously and hard in Belfast, London, Brussels and here to bring about a realisation of the particular and special circumstances and the unique case of this country. Deputy Adams is well aware that the situation in so far as Northern Ireland is concerned is that this Republic voted in a referendum to remove Articles 2 and 3 from the Irish Constitution and in support of the Good Friday Agreement, which makes clear that the Six Counties are part of the United Kingdom until or unless the people of Northern Ireland decide to do something about that. In that respect, we have always discussed the question of the special status, the particular circumstances and the unique situation that applies in Northern Ireland. What is now written into the European Council's bedrock for negotiations is that if at some time in the future the people of Northern Ireland decide to do that, they will not have to apply to re-join the European Union.
I am not going to comment on leaks in newspapers or on what has been written about this. The situation in so far as the 27 members of the European Council is concerned is that there is a very clear position of not in any way wishing to punish the United Kingdom for a democratic decision that was made by its people and on which the British Government wishes to follow through. There is a realisation that it has now got to be dealt with in a respectful, understanding, constructive and positive way. I have always made that case, both to the Prime Minister and to the European Council. Clearly the step by step approach that has been set out is critical from a European Union point of view. The Prime Minister has called an election in Great Britain. It is expected - although one can never pre-judge the outcome of an election - that she will receive an increased mandate. That allows her to do a few things, if she wishes, including making new appointments to Cabinet. It will also, from her point of view, give her a clearer hand in negotiating on Brexit. However, that does not change the issues that need to be dealt with in the negotiations. The first part is what is required under Article 50, namely to deal with the exit process and there are three particular items in that context. The first is the liability that arises from membership of the European Union, for past membership and requirements into the future by the United Kingdom. There was no discussion in Brussels on Saturday about the scale of that liability; nor were any figures mentioned. The discussion was about principles and methodologies to arrive at that. The second issue is the rights of EU citizens who live in Great Britain and the rights of British citizens who live in other EU member states, including here in Ireland. Obviously, in our case it is understood and accepted that we have had a common travel area since 1922, with acquired rights not just to travel but to residency, work and opportunities in respect of social welfare. That is a matter of bilateral discussion between our two countries. Since other countries joined the EU, many of their citizens now live in Britain. What are their rights and what issues need to be dealt with in that context? Reciprocal to that is the question of the rights of citizens of Great Britain living in France, Spain or elsewhere in the EU. The third issue, which interests us directly, is the question of borders. What do we do if we agree that there should not be a return to the hard Border which brought about sectarianism, violence, terrorism and all of that? These are three matters that the EU wishes to have dealt with very early on in the negotiations. We do not want a situation where, for instance, others might claim that Ireland has become a sort of bargaining chip because of an agreement in respect of the special circumstances that apply here because of the Border.
I have made it clear that Ireland always wishes to comply with EU law. That has been our position for quite a long time.
On the common travel area, we are very clear that the acquired rights of Irish and British people in Ireland and the UK have applied since 1922 and are very much-----
We expect to be able to preserve the common travel area. I have made that point very clearly, as has the British Prime Minister.
The common travel area was in place long before the formation of the European Economic Community, EEC and the EU and long before Brexit.We intend to be able to hold on to the common travel area between Ireland and Britain. On what it means in practice, I welcome the helpful statement from the former First Minister, Arlene Foster. We would like to be able to preserve the tariff-free arrangement that now applies. Clearly, the negotiations in this area could become quite complex, depending on the issues involved, but it is too early to say what its exact nature will be. A wealth of information will need to be teased out when we open the box dealing with trade issues and tariffs. We agree with the Prime Minister when she says she wants Great Britain to have as close as possible a working relationship with the European Union. If that implies tariff-free arrangements, so much the better. We agree with that sentiment and would like to see it continued in practice. The Deputy is right when he says I said we would publish a more detailed document. I considered doing so last week, but I thought it better to wait for the outcome of the European Council in order that its decision could be incorporated into the document. I will brief Opposition leaders later this evening. We will publish the much more detailed statement today and it will be available to Deputy Micheál Martin.
Yes, today.
That is a good question. I did not want to call all of the Deputies together on a bank holiday Monday to give them a briefing on what had happened on Saturday or Sunday.
We did not know the outcome of the European Council meeting until Saturday.
I could have published a much broader document about where we were headed and briefed the Deputies on such a document. If I had done so, the Deputies would have argued that its contents could change, depending on the decision to be taken on Saturday by the European Council.
Now we have the same document, added to by the decision of the European Council. The Ceann Comhairle is familiar with what politicians do here. Deputy Gerry Adams was talking about coups and all the rest of it. Perhaps he knows something about that, but as far as I am concerned, this is work that was undertaken for the past 18 months.
I am glad that 26 members of the European Council agreed with Ireland on Northern Ireland becoming part of the European Union without having to reapply.
It should be noted here that Brexit is not the end of the line. The European Union has its own agenda which involves the Single Market, the digital single market, the capital markets and EMU. It wants a future of continued prosperity, peace and career and other opportunities for millions of people in a world that is changing rapidly as a result of digitisation which has been referred to as the fourth industrial revolution.
We have to go beyond and through Brexit. The accident that has happened here has implications nationally, internationally and globally and we must deal with it. The agenda for the European Union is for the future beyond Brexit. While I respect the democratic decision of the United Kingdom, I genuinely regret that so much of the time of the leaders of 500 million people is being taken up in dealing with this situation.  I will respond to Deputy Brendan Howlin's question about sectoral issues by saying it has been made perfectly clear to the UK authorities that there will be no cherry-picking.
The EU 27 will negotiate as a bloc with the United Kingdom. Many theories are being put forward by academics and those who have worked in various sectors, but it is clear that the closest possible relationship we can have is the relationship we now have. How will we be able to get back to it if the United Kingdom leaves the Single Market and has a different position where trading, the customs union and the WTO rules are concerned? Deputy Brendan Howlin has made a valid point about ports. One of the opportunities the European Investment Bank will present relates to the capacity to invest in serious infrastructure here once there is a line of investment to actually repay those loans and have conditions set by which that would apply.
Exactly. It is about having the opportunity to do so. As this argument continues, every country in Europe is quite well aware that Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark would be most adversely affected by what is termed a "hard Brexit". When I discussed this issue in The Hague with Prime Minister Rutte and Prime Minister Rasmussen, we made it very clear that we understood the impact something like this would have on our small countries. The ground rules have now been set. They encompass all of Ireland's particular priorities. It is a case of moving on to economics and trade. That is the next step. I hope to come back to the Government within a month with propositions in that regard.
The priorities have been agreed to by the EU 27 and in the letter sent from Prime Minister May to the President of the Council.Yes, we can have a debate here, as we will have on numerous occasions about elements of Brexit. On Saturday, the 27 were anxious not to have a long and acrimonious internal discussion which would send out a signal that Europe itself did not have the capacity to agree on a structure and guidelines with which to negotiate. Those guidelines in the discussion were intense, extensive and went on for a long period. On behalf of Ireland, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs who attend the General Affairs Council meetings, as well as our public servants, ambassadors and diplomats who have worked not just within Europe but beyond to get out Ireland's message. There was not anything further to discuss about the guidelines 
There were some further elements under discussion which I raised myself in respect of Northern Ireland and its re-entry without having to re-apply in the event that, by consent and democratic means, a referendum is passed in Northern Ireland wishing to join the Republic as a united Ireland. The Deputy's point about East Germany is true. However, Ireland is in a slightly different position in that Northern Ireland is currently a member of the European Union and is the subject of an international legally binding agreement which was not the case with East Germany. There is a clear case which I am glad was accepted by the other 26 member states. I have to be optimistic that, despite the fact we did not want this and we did not cause this, it has happened and we must deal with it. Through these Brexit negotiations, complex and difficult that they may be, we have to move on with the agenda for the European Union of the Single Market, the digital Single Market and its potential in a changing world, along with the future for prosperity, investment and job opportunities.
I remain focused and positive about the fact we can get the best outcome for our people, for our country, for our economy and jobs, as well as the issues I have identified as priorities.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 7 and 8 together. The economic division of my Department supports the Taoiseach and the Government in developing and implementing economic policy aimed at sustainable economic growth and development. It has a particular focus on jobs, competitiveness, trade and investment, tourism and the economic impacts of Brexit, as well as other international developments. It is also responsible for housing matters and for economic infrastructure. It supports the work of four Cabinet committees and related senior officials groups, seeking to maximise the effectiveness of their work. These are the Cabinet committees on economy, trade and jobs; housing; infrastructure, the environment and climate action; and regional and rural affairs.  It supports implementation of the Government’s Action Plans for Jobs, Housing and Homelessness, and Rural Development, and co-ordinates Ireland’s participation in the European semester process. Preparation of the national reform programme and the national risk assessment are also undertaken. The division acts as my Department's liaison point with the Central Statistics Office, CSO, on certain administrative functions, and provides support, as required, to the Minister of State, Deputy Regina Doherty, who has been delegated responsibility for the CSO. The division plays a role in supporting the Government in its approach to long-term challenges as set out in the programme for Government and in the delivery of key infrastructure including housing, broadband, transport, energy and water. The division works with relevant Departments to oversee Ireland's transition to a low-carbon economy.
In respect of the comment made by Deputy Micheál Martin about the CSO, the Department of Social Protection estimated savings from control and fraud, not just fraud. It was based on a model developed with the CSO and also used in Australia, as well as other OECD countries. The Department of Social Protection stands over this. With regard to the CSO figures on house builds-----
Even in the time of a former Government-----
-----of which Deputy Micheál Martin was a member, house builds were always determined on ESB house connections.
There is a different model with the CSO. The economic unit of the Department deals with certain administrative functions and supports the Minister of State, Deputy Regina Doherty. It deals with regular parliamentary questions. The CSO is an independent national institute dealing with statistics. The Statistics Act 1993 underpins that. The Act provides the director general will have the sole responsibility for and be independent in the exercise of the functions of deciding the statistical methodology and professional statistical standards used by the office; the content of statistical releases and publications issued by the office; and the timing and methods of dissemination of statistics compiled by the office. The Minister of State, Deputy Regina Doherty and I have no role or function in that. In that regard, it pointed out from its model that the issue, in so far as house builds are concerned, was that for years Governments have used electricity connections to determine the number.The Minister will take note of the Central Statistics Office, CSO, figures. The action plan for housing, with the five designated pillars, has an unprecedented extent both of incentive, innovative opportunity and money available to it. We are trying to catch up from a position where the construction sector collapsed completely from building 90,000 houses per year to 9,000 houses per year.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 9 to 12 inclusive. The British-Irish and Northern Ireland affairs section of the amalgamated international, European Union and Northern Ireland division supports the work of the Taoiseach and Government in helping maintain peace and manage relationships on the island of Ireland and between Britain and Ireland, particularly in the context of Brexit. The division deals with all aspects of British-Irish relations, including Northern Ireland affairs and North-South co-operation. It also deals with key policy issues in this context and is responsible for supporting the Taoiseach in co-ordinating a whole-of-government approach to Brexit. My Department, as with the rest of Government, has operated a highly consultative approach on Brexit to date, during which we have engaged very extensively with stakeholders across all sectors of Irish society. This has included the all-island civic dialogue process that has, to date, held two major plenary sessions in Dublin Castle and 14 sectoral events examining specific policy areas in greater detail. In addition, nearly 300 separate meetings with industry and civic society have been held to deepen our analysis and research. At the civic dialogue events and a range of other events, senior civil servants in this Department have worked to communicate publicly the Government's work on Brexit in terms of the extensive planning undertaken, as well as to map the next stages to the Brexit process. It is envisaged this work will continue both in individual meetings when requested or speaking at events when appropriate. As I have pointed out, the next stage after concluding last Saturday's meeting is to move to trade and economics, including the issues that will help to underpin the sustainability and stability of Irish firms in a vulnerable position. The public communications work is also supported by the larger Brexit communications work that the Government is undertaking, which is available for people to read at 
Come on lads.
It is regrettable the Executive is not up and running. The election took place and members were elected to the Assembly. There was time to put together an Executive but that did not happen. I do not have control over that. The British election was suddenly called by the British Prime Minister, which obviously directly impacts the position in Northern Ireland and between ourselves and Britain. With regard to Deputy Martin's comments, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade has been in Northern Ireland for very extensive periods and dealing directly with Secretary of State James Brokenshire. He is available any time, if necessary, to either go to Northern Ireland or Downing Street to speak with the British Prime Minister. Equally, the British Prime Minister has committed to being engaged in that regard. I know Deputy Martin understands that. I saw the comments from former First Minister Foster and they have been helpful. It is regrettable the North-South Ministerial Council cannot meet because there are no Ministers from an Executive.
It has always proven to be a worthwhile body for issues that needed to be discussed. It is expected all the parties in Northern Ireland will again be around the table the day after the election.I hope that a renewed sense of understanding just how important this is will prevail there and that they get the Executive up and running. In response to Deputy Howlin, I do not have an objection to senior public servants taking opportunities, where they arise publicly, to deal with matters. However, as the Deputy is aware, under the system here one gets very extensive briefings from senior Ministers. They are delivered in political fora both here and abroad. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs deal with the General Affairs Council and they have extensive, detailed briefings on these matters. I do not have an objection Deputy Adams raised the question of a united Ireland. I have seen the comments about a second New Ireland Forum and what that might involve. However, there is already a facility in the Oireachtas, the Joint Committee on the Implementation of the Good Friday Agreement, which could lead on discussing both the issues that are not fulfilled in the Good Friday Agreement and what the future might look like in the context of a decision that might be taken at some time in the future by the people of Northern Ireland and what that would involve in terms of different jurisdictions, different educational issues, different judicial systems, how it might be catered for in terms of economics and so forth. There is no reason that we should not use that committee to examine both the issues that are not yet fulfilled and also a brave new future that might lie ahead, provided the people of Northern Ireland choose by consent to make a democratic decision to join with the Republic of Ireland on an island that is part of the European Union of the future.
I am pleased to address the House following the meeting of the European Council last Saturday, 29 April. This was the first meeting since the British Prime Minister, Theresa May, formally notified the European Union of the UK's intention to leave, thereby triggering Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty of the European Union. It was therefore a meeting of the 27 remaining member states. We adopted the EU negotiating guidelines and had a broad-ranging discussion about the process ahead. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, and Jean-Claude Junker, President of the European Commission, also outlined the process and timelines around the relocation of the two EU agencies currently located in the UK. I am pleased with the outcome of the meeting, including the overall approach to the negotiations, and the acknowledgement of the need to address Ireland's unique concerns, as set out in the guidelines, as well as the declaration which provides reassurance around the provision on unity in the Good Friday Agreement. The Government has been consistent and forthright in its view that the UK’s departure from the Union would have significant economic, political and social implications for Ireland. For over two years, we have been analysing the issues and engaging with sectors across the island of Ireland, including through the all-island dialogue, to identify our main areas of concern and to develop our priorities. These are to protect the Good Friday Agreement and the peace process, including by maintaining an open Border; to retain the common travel area; to minimise the impact on our economy; and to work for a positive future for the European Union. We have been extremely active at political and official level in engaging with our EU partners and the EU institutions. This has involved highlighting and explaining the significant implications for Ireland arising from Brexit and the need to take account of our particular concerns in the negotiations. Since the UK referendum last June, we have had over 400 engagements on Brexit with our EU partners. Over the past ten months, as Taoiseach, I have had bilateral meetings with my counterparts in Germany, France, Spain, Belgium, Cyprus, Malta, Croatia, Poland, Denmark and the Netherlands, and with the Presidents of the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission and with the chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, whom I will meet again in Dublin next week. I also of course have spoken informally with all my EU counterparts in the margins of the European Council. Most recently, at the beginning of April, I had a second bilateral meeting with Chancellor Merkel in Berlin and just two weeks ago I travelled to The Hague to meet both my Dutch and Danish counterparts. In all these meetings, I explained the background and context of the Northern Ireland peace process and emphasised the need to avoid the re-imposition of a hard Border on the island of Ireland. As I have been saying for some time now, this is a political challenge and we will have to be flexible and imaginative in our efforts to find solutions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs have both had extensive programmes of engagement, while other Ministers have been engaging with their EU counterparts. We have also been meeting regularly with our British friends within the structures of the Good Friday Agreement and the mechanisms flowing from the 2012 joint statement, while fully respecting the principle agreed with our EU partners of "no negotiation without notification". In addition to this, there has been deep engagement at senior official level, including through our permanent representation in Brussels and our network of embassies overseas. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the efforts and personal commitment of everyone involved who has worked so hard to achieve positive outcomes for our country. It was by no means a given that Ireland’s position would be seen as a priority for the negotiations but, thanks to our strategic, persistent and patient work and the understanding and support of our European partners, I am pleased that Ireland’s specific concerns have been fully acknowledged in the guidelines. Supporting and protecting the achievements, benefits and commitments of the peace process, avoiding a hard Border and protecting the common travel area will now be addressed as priorities in the exit negotiations. I recall that the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 5 April last which also included strong references to our specific concerns. Prime Minister May's letter on 29 March triggering Article 50 and her statement to the House of Commons on the same day confirmed the British Government's objective of avoiding a return to a hard Border on the island of Ireland and its commitment to maintaining the common travel area. Clearly, our extensive campaign of strategic outreach at political, diplomatic and official level over recent months has been effective in ensuring that our unique circumstances and particular concerns are understood and acknowledged. The extensive preparation by member states and the EU Institutions in advance of the European Council meant that the guidelines were agreed on Saturday without any major points of difference. In addition to the language reflecting our unique concerns, which provides an excellent basis on which to start the negotiations, we are also pleased with the tone of the text. It is open and constructive, while nevertheless clearly and firmly outlining the EU's objectives and principles. The approach to the question of the UK's financial liabilities is also welcome. This is, of course, a sensitive issue but it must be resolved in light of British commitments made as a member of the EU. It is sensible therefore, as agreed on Saturday, to focus first on the principles and methodology before considering the numbers or the structure of payments involved. The text of the guidelines also highlights the importance of getting clarity regarding EU citizens' rights. This is a key issue across member states and I welcome the focus, which will help to provide certainty for people and families in many countries. Importantly from our perspective, the guidelines acknowledge the need for transitional arrangements, which will need to preserve the EU's legal order, and they underscore the need for a dispute resolution mechanism. As Ireland stands to be more affected than any other member state by the UK's departure, it is crucial from our perspective that work begins as soon as possible on scoping out the future EU-UK relationship. We are pleased, therefore, that the guidelines acknowledge that the future relationship can be discussed once the European Council agrees that "sufficient progress" has been made on the exit issues. This means that the European Council - the Heads of State and Government of the 27 member states - will assess progress in the first phase of the negotiations. Assuming these are approached in good faith and sufficient progress has been made on the issues, it can agree to move onto the second phase, including consideration of the shape of the future relationship. Again in line with Ireland's interests, the language in the guidelines about the future relationship is generous. It indicates that the EU wants to have an ambitious agreement, not just in economic terms but also in areas such as security. It is very much our objective to have a close and positive relationship with the UK and we will continue to work with partners to achieve such an outcome. I welcome the guidelines from a substantive perspective. I appreciate the thorough preparatory work carried out by the European Council team, the Commission task force and all our EU partners, whose willingness to listen to us and to acknowledge our unique concerns has brought us to this point.The outcome is an endorsement of the Government’s approach and a clear recognition of the specific challenges we face. The Government has robustly defended the Good Friday Agreement throughout the process so far, making clear to all concerned that, as a legally binding, international treaty registered with the United Nations, it provides a unique political and constitutional framework on the island of Ireland. We consider it important to provide reassurance that Brexit does not undermine any provision of the Good Friday Agreement and that, if the provision on unity by peaceful and democratic means is invoked at some time in the future, EU membership is assured, which is an important point. This is not about triggering any mechanism. I have been consistent in my view that the conditions for a referendum do not currently exist. However, the declaration we agreed on Saturday which will be recorded in the minutes of the European Council was hugely important in order to dispel any doubt or uncertainty on that point. As I noted, Presidents Tusk and Juncker also informed the European Council about the timing and process involved in relocating the two EU agencies currently situated in the United Kingdom, namely, the European Banking Authority and the European Medicines Agency. Ireland has put itself forward as a candidate to host both agencies and the Ministers, Deputies Michael Noonan and Simon Harris, and their Departments have been active in making our case and seeking support for the bids. There is, of course, intense competition, with almost all member states bidding to host one or both of the agencies, but we are continuing with our efforts. The final decision will be taken by the European Council, probably by the end of the year. In the interim, the matter will be raised at COREPER meetings and dealt with by the General Affairs Committee before returning in the autumn to the European Council for a decision. With the EU guidelines now adopted, including the language about our unique concerns, the Government is publishing today a position paper for the negotiations ahead. It reflects the findings of the Government's extensive preparatory work and consultations on the island of Ireland and at EU level and outlines the positions and priorities that will underpin our engagement in the Brexit process as it unfolds in the next two years. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade will deliver a statement at the end of this session and speak further about the position paper. There is much work to be done. With the EU guidelines agreed, the Commission will adopt tomorrow its draft of the more detailed negotiating directives. They will then be considered at official and ministerial level, before coming to the General Affairs Council for agreement on 22 May. From Ireland's perspective, we are committed to playing a strong role as a member of the EU 27. We will continue to engage to ensure our concerns and priorities will be reflected in the EU negotiating position as it evolves and that we work towards a strong and constructive future relationship with the United Kingdom. We will also focus on domestic policy to reinforce the competitiveness of the economy, protect it from the full impact of Brexit and pursue all possible opportunities that might arise. We are well prepared and will continue to work to protect and promote Ireland’s interests. I look forward to keeping the House fully informed of developments in regard to Brexit and hearing statements from Deputies.
There is no problem in having a debate.
I know of others who would take a different view.
Of course. Absolutely.
No, not yet.
Yes. We have got two observations from parties. I intend to bring an amendment to Government next week, but I will talk to Deputy Wallace about it this evening if he attends the briefing session.
I am pleased to address the House ahead of the meeting of the European Council in Brussels on 29 April. The meeting has been scheduled following the formal notification by the UK of its intention to leave the EU. As provided for under Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union, it will be a meeting of the 27 EU Heads of State and Government without the UK. We will discuss the EU guidelines for the upcoming negotiations with the UK with a view to their formal adoption. The Government has been clear from the start that the UK's departure from the Union would and will have significant economic, political and social implications for Ireland. For over two years, even before the UK referendum, we have been examining the issues and engaging with sectors across the island of Ireland to analyse fully our main areas of concern and to develop our negotiating priorities. These are to minimise the impact on our trade and the economy, to protect the Good Friday Agreement and the Northern Ireland peace process, including through maintaining an open Border, to continue the common travel area with the UK and to work for a positive future for the European Union. In my speech to the IlEA on 15 February, I outlined the Government's preparations, including the new structures and resources which have been allocated, the ongoing sectoral analysis and research throughout Government Departments, our engagement with industry and civic society, which has to date included nearly 280 separate meetings, and the all-island civic dialogue, which I convened with the Minister, Deputy Flanagan, and which to date has included 16 sectoral events and two plenary meetings with more than 1,200 delegates representing industries and organisations from across the country. We have also been very active at political and official level in engaging with our EU partners and the EU institutions, raising awareness of the unique circumstances in relation to Ireland and the need to address these in the negotiations. To date, we have had more than 400 engagements with partners, which have also, of course, enabled us to understand better their concerns and objectives. In addition to meeting my EU counterparts regularly at the European Council, I have had bilateral meetings with the leaders of France, Spain, Belgium, Cyprus. Malta, Croatia and Poland as well as with the British Prime Minister, Theresa May. Last week, I met Chancellor Merkel again, in Berlin, and next week I will meet the Dutch and the Danish Prime Ministers. I also had separate bilateral meetings recently in Brussels with the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, the President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, and the chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier. In all these engagements I have expressed my strong view that any manifestation of a hard Border would have very negative consequences for our country and the peace process. This is a political challenge and we will have to be creative and imaginative to deal with it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister of State with responsibility for European affairs have also had extensive programmes of engagement, while other Ministers have been engaging with their respective counterparts. Engagement at senior official level, including through our permanent representation in Brussels and our network of embassies overseas, has been very extensive. We have also, of course, had opportunities to discuss Brexit with London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast via the long-established connections through the Good Friday Agreement, while clearly respecting the "no negotiation without notification" principle. Across the board, there is now a good understanding of our unique concerns and an openness to working closely with us in addressing them in the run-up to the negotiations. This was reflected first in the indication from Michel Barnier that Ireland's specific conditions and concerns should be addressed as a priority for the exit negotiations.On 31 March, the draft EU negotiating guidelines were circulated by President Tusk. I am pleased that these include a very strong acknowledgement of Ireland’s unique circumstances, the need to protect the peace process and the Good Friday Agreement and our intention to maintain bilateral arrangements with the UK, such as the common travel area. There was also a strong reference to our specific concerns in the resolution which was adopted by the European Parliament on 5 April. Prime Minister Theresa May’s letter of 29 March and her statement to the House of Commons the same day reaffirmed the British Government's objective of avoiding a return to a hard Border on the island of Ireland and its commitment to maintaining the common travel area. It is clear therefore that our extensive political, diplomatic and official campaign of recent months has been effective in ensuring that our unique circumstances, our specific issues and our special case are understood and acknowledged. We will continue to defend the Good Friday Agreement in its spirit as well as its letter and to make clear that, as an internationally recognised treaty registered with the UN, it provides a unique political and constitutional framework on the island of Ireland. Whatever happens in the Brexit negotiations, nothing should undermine the peace and stability in Northern Ireland that has taken so long to achieve and in which the EU has played such an important role. It is important to make clear that there will be at least two sets of negotiations. The first will deal with the UK’s official exit from the EU, covering issues such as the UK’s financial commitments and reciprocal rights for Europeans living in Britain and British people living in the European Union. The second will address the EU’s future relationship with the UK. This will be particularly important for our future trading relationship and any potential implications for our economy. The UK Government’s White Paper and the Prime Minister Theresa May’s letter and statement on 29 March provided some clarity around the UK’s objectives for the future relationship. These include the pursuit of a bold and ambitious free trade agreement, an outcome that would be in Ireland’s interests. It is in all our interests that the UK should maintain the closest possible links to the EU and I welcome Prime Minister Theresa May’s comment about wanting to have a positive and constructive partnership between the EU and the UK. Knowing more about their intentions will be important as we continue to prepare for the negotiations. From Ireland’s perspective, it is crucial that the negotiations are conducted in a constructive and orderly way and we will continue to encourage our EU partners and the UK to maintain a calm and balanced approach. We are now studying the draft guidelines carefully in terms of the overall approach to the negotiations and the many other issues that arise, beyond those unique to Ireland. The guidelines will be further discussed among the EU 27 member states at ministerial and senior official level before the European Council on 29 April. Once they have been agreed, negotiating directives for the European Commission will be prepared for adoption by the General Affairs Council in May. Negotiations with the UK are therefore likely to be launched in late May or early June. As Deputies will be aware, the day-to-day technical EU negotiations will be led by Michel Barnier and his team on the basis of the mandate from the European Council. Member states, however, including Ireland, will have control of the process. The European Council, that is leaders of all member states, will discuss the negotiations on a very regular basis and will take all final decisions. Of course, the European Parliament also has to give its consent to the eventual outcome. We are in constant contact with the Barnier team and are participating fully in all the EU 27 structures in preparing for the negotiations. We will be part of the EU team and look forward to working with our fellow member states in delivering the best possible results for Ireland and for the EU. Our priorities have been developed, opportunities are being pursued and risks and mitigation measures are being identified. Now that Article 50 has been triggered, we are preparing a consolidated policy paper which will be published in advance of the European Council on 29 April, and which will set out Ireland’s approach to the negotiations. At the same time we will continue to make the economy resilient and future-proofed. We have already taken important steps in this context, including in Budget 2017, the Action Plan for Jobs 2017 and our new trade and investment strategy. Looking ahead, a new ten year capital plan is in preparation, we are revising our Enterprise 2025 policy and we are in active discussions with the European Investment Bank on a potential increase in investment in the country. Our enterprise agencies will continue to work with exporters and potential investors, helping them to deal with issues as they arise, making companies competitive, diversifying market exposure and up-skilling teams. We regularly hear about the importance of this from those involved directly in the agri-sector. We met with the IFA last weekend and will continue to make this area a priority.  We have had some very positive outcomes to our efforts over the past few weeks. However, this is only the beginning of a complicated process which could take years to conclude. Our efforts will continue to involve all Ministers, Government Departments and agencies, extensive engagement with stakeholders and ongoing strong co-ordination from the centre. Before concluding, I would like to stress that Ireland’s place remains firmly at the heart of Europe. The Union has been central to the success of our small, open economy and the basis for much of the social and political progress we have achieved. We will be very much central to the EU team for the negotiations ahead. We will continue to engage with our partners calmly and patiently and to negotiate firmly but fairly in the best interests of the country and our citizens. The Minister of State with responsibility for European Affairs, Dara Murphy, will deliver a wrap-up statement at the end of this session. I look forward to keeping the House fully informed of developments in relation to Brexit and repeat that the opportunity is open to the leaders of the different parties in the House to have a full up-to-date briefing at any time they wish.
We have democracy in Northern Ireland as well.
Laying down the law. Well done.
The 27.
I did no such thing. I said I was happy to have them.
I said I was very happy to have them-----
-----and I have offered the Deputy's leader briefings all the time.
I have offered your leader briefings all the time.
Check the record. I said I am very happy to have them. Very happy.
Stand by the Good Friday Agreement.
Stand by the Good Friday Agreement.
Populism will not work either.
Stand by the Good Friday Agreement.
Stand by the Good Friday Agreement.
Form an Executive.
Form an Executive.
Form an Executive.
Form an Executive.
Form an Executive.
Form an Executive.
Form an Executive.
That is rubbish, Deputy Burton. I have said before 29 April.
Will the Deputy read the speech? Before 29 April.
This is part of the challenge we face as a society and as a Government in delivering and providing services for people in a various categories who have real problems in this regard. I have been down to visit Brother Kevin at the centre on a number of occasions. He is an extraordinary man and he has been doing this work for years. Obviously, the numbers who turn up at his centre speak for themselves. It is not all without inactivity. The Government has allocated serious resources for tackling homelessness in the budget for this year, with €100 million being spent on homeless services. This is not an insignificant figure. In addition, the overall housing budget for this year is €1.3 billion. Deputy Micheál Martin and I have discussed this before and the issue is how quickly the necessary houses can be built. The Minister has set out targets for not having people in emergency accommodation and targets for providing accommodation for people who are homeless and sleeping rough or who are in hostels at various locations in Dublin. Some of the projects have been extraordinarily successful. In 2016, there were 3,052 households that exited homelessness, which is the highest level ever. The ambition is very high this year. Deputy Micheál Martin spoke of building houses, and work is under way on advancing 650 rapid-build homes in 2017. There will be another 500 units in 2018. O'Devaney Gardens is up the road from Brother Kevin's centre. That site has lain there for years but work is now under way.There are places like George's Place in Dún Laoghaire with 12 homes, St. Aidan's off Brookfield Road with 71 homes, Poppintree in Ballymun with 22, Cherry Orchard in Ballyfermot with 24, and so on. Construction is under way in quite a lot of places. I agree it is by no means perfect and there are always gaps in the level of services that are provided. These issues are being addressed constantly, as Deputy Micheál Martin is well aware. The Department of Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government has a special unit which meets regularly. It has provided incentives, opportunities and shortcuts for private enterprise to be able to build houses on public property and for local authorities to provide houses. The development of the housing assistance payment, HAP, scheme has made an important contribution, as has the provision of homes and services for those who have particular difficulties. The Dublin Region Homeless Executive confirmed a minimum of 142 people on its last count at the end of the year. Developments have taken place to provide beds in what are very good hostels. I have looked at a number of those. Brother Kevin does an extraordinary job. This is part of the enormous range of challenges the Government is trying to meet. We must have the engine that can drive our economy to provide these services, be it chiropody or dental or whatever, down in those centres. Deputy Micheál Martin may shake his head. It is not as perfect as one would wish but these matters are receiving real priority, not just from the HSE but from the different agencies to try to provide in the best and most effective way possible for many of these people. Part of that is putting €100 million on the table for services and €1.3 billion this year for housing for the homeless, social housing and so on.
There are children who have challenges and particular difficulties from different parts of the country. Every local authority has at its disposal finance and services to provide in the best way possible for those children, and there are some with very particular difficulties, as the Deputy is well aware. The Government has made the decision to provide €5.3 billion to deliver social housing between now and 2021. The Deputy says there is a disconnect between that figure and the reality of what is happening on the ground. The Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government and the Minister of State with responsibility for housing have told every single local authority: "There is your money. Show me your sites. Build your houses. Here are the incentives." Years ago, local authorities were very active in building houses. They range now between approved housing bodies and local authorities. The money is on the table. The housing assistance payment this year will accommodate 15,000 households and will help to keep people in their homes.Last year, nearly 18,500 housing supports were provided from a housing budget provision of €935 million. It was spent in full for that very purpose – to keep people in their homes. This included nearly 5,300 homes that were built or purchased and 12,000 housing assistance payment tenancies. Part 3 of the Minister's programme is the plan to build 25,000 units per annum, on average, by 2021.
Deputy Micheál Martin is well aware of the scale of the challenge in building the houses that were not built following the total collapse of the construction sector some years ago.
I want to congratulate the deputy leader for cynical outrage in her consistency, at least. She comes in here time after time and talks about privatisation of the water system. I described it yesterday as fantasy and she is at it again today.
Deputy McDonald's leader and party made it perfectly clear that Sinn Féin supported water charges and that Sinn Féin would pay its water charges.
Deputy Adams is not here today. I hope that he is in Belfast making arrangements for the Sinn Féin party to come together with the DUP and form a working Executive. We have other matters to consider besides the kind of carry-on that Deputy McDonald is on about this morning.
I am glad that the committee, which was set up for a specific purpose, has agreed a report. The process is democratic and Sinn Féin is a very democratic party.
It had other ways of dealing with the middle ground before. They are all democrats, abide by the law and understand that. The committee set up for that purpose has made its recommendation and its report. The Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government will now proceed to provide legislation to deal with the recommendations that are in that report. I differ from Deputy McDonald on this. I come from a part of the world where hundreds of thousands of people welcomed and waited for access to water for a very long time and have always paid for it.
Deputy McDonald lives in a world where when the tap is turned on, somebody else has paid for it. That is what she wants.
The whole theme of the Deputy today is not about a solution; it is about the lack of further protest available to her, because that is all she wants.
That is all Sinn Féin wants. Its entire political system is based on outrage, cynicism and protest. In this case, our country is moving on.
I would like to have water meters in every house so that everybody could judge and make arrangements for the safe use of a precious commodity. Deputy McDonald has a different view. She wants everything for nothing. I am quite prepared to be democratic and allow the Oireachtas to deal with the legislation that the Minister will bring forward. If Deputy McDonald's attempt is at outrage today, her attack is silently on the Fianna Fáil party. At least it had the courage to come to a conclusion in the interests of our country and move on.
The Deputy asked a very important question there. I thought she knew the answer but I am going to give it to her anyway. She asked who prevails in a democratic society. The answer is the majority. That is what democracy is about.
The issues are talked out and a decision is made. A decision was made by an Oireachtas committee set up for the purpose of examining the expert review that had made its recommendations and-----
-----it has agreed a report. The Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government now has the responsibility to table legislation to give effect to that report. That is the process that is under way. That is called democracy and that is democracy in action. Despite Deputy McDonald's protests, cynicism, false outrage-----
-----despite the fact that she wants everything for nothing and wants to pay for nothing-----
The answer to the question is-----
Deputy Ferris knows a lot about paying taxes as well. The answer to the question-----
The question is: who prevails in a democratic society? The answer is the majority. I am glad that, in respect of this matter, a report has been agreed and that the Oireachtas can now proceed to deal with the legislation to give effect to that, which will provide an opportunity for people who have excessive usage to conserve water. It will also ensure that people will pay a penalty for excessive usage.
I thank Deputy Boyd Barrett. The very reasons the Deputy outlined for the people who are faced with this situation are the result of an economy that collapsed and a construction sector that vanished. This Government and that which preceded it have set about rectifying matters. We have done a lot of things in terms of having an engine to drive the economy. The people who are going into the 38 houses that are being completed in September of this year in Belcamp have the same stories. The people who are going to occupy the 24 houses in Cherry Orchard in July of this year have the same stories.The people who are going into the 30 houses on Mourne Road in Drimnagh in June of this year have the same stories. The people who are going into the 39 houses in St. Helena's in Finglas have the same stories. I could give the Deputy their names and their details also. I feel sorry for those in the situation the Deputy has described. I do not know about the situation whereby a housing officer or an individual in a local council would send somebody ten or 12 miles away, as the Deputy has described. He mentioned that particular case before. There are lists of houses that are currently under construction and for which taxpayers' money has been put up. Money has been given to local authorities to get on with building. Quite recently, €200 million was allocated by this House to obtain access to sites so houses could be built for people such as those the Deputy describes. Nobody wants to see the situation continue. This Government is working very actively on this. That is why there is a senior Ministry for housing and a special unit in the Department of Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government. That is why an unprecedented amount has been provided to all local authorities to buy, renovate or build houses. We will not have this solved until the people the Deputy mentions and those who come after them, or those who find themselves in particular difficulties, are housed in proper accommodation. That is the intention and ambition of the Government.
All the things Deputy Boyd Barrett mentions are available to local authorities now.
They have been given money to buy houses. They have been provided with money by the taxpayer to build houses. They have been given incentives to get into sites that have been inaccessible for building. They have the opportunity to provide public land that they have in their possession in order that builders may come and build houses for them.
The root cause of the problem is not what Deputy Boyd Barrett says but a lack of supply of houses. I do not know where the Deputy lives but-----
-----he cannot wave his wand out in Dún Laoghaire and build houses like that. It takes blocks, concrete foundations, planning permission and all the rest of it. That is what is happening.
That is why the Government put €5.3 billion on the table for the period between now and 2021 to build those houses so that the people with difficulties to whom the Deputy referred and their children can be housed in proper and fit accommodation.
That is the kind of accommodation that is now being provided in the areas I have outlined for the Deputy for the very same kind of people who have the very same kinds of problems. We cannot deal with them all right away.
Work on all of these issues, including rent pressure zones and HAP, is in full flow in the Department of Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government and is receiving the attention of the Minister.
Of course.
Deputy Pringle has set out the situation in so far as Ulster Bank is concerned. Deputy Pringle has not referred to the very substantial rural development programme that has been published by Government across all Departments which includes a direction for the provision of 135,000 jobs, out of 200,000 to be created over the next number of years in areas outside the greater Dublin region, including the Deputy's area. Deputy Pringle is clear on his remarks about the post offices. The Deputy might like to know that between 2004 and 2010 there were 345 post offices closed. He did not refer to any of those at all. In the past five years, there have been 37 post offices closed. No post office will stay open unless people use it. The Government has made a decision that there should be basic banking facilities made available in post offices, and we are working on that.
The assessment of the Minister of State, Deputy Ring-----
-----of a pilot scheme for hubs to operate on the basis of four post offices to be determined was accepted by Government.The credit unions are regulated by the Central Bank. Two reports on credit unions were produced. The Government has implemented them and is fully supportive of the credit unions all over the country. It is not true for the Deputy to say that the Government has no interest in rural Ireland - far from it. In fact, many of the major policies of this Government are focused directly on giving opportunity and incentive to rural Ireland, not least the recent announcement by the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment regarding the roll-out of national broadband. The review of the capital programme for the next number of years, which will provide opportunities for infrastructure throughout all parts of the country, including the Deputy's area, is under way. As a result, I do not accept at all his suggestion that the Government has reneged or is reneging on its commitment to rural Ireland. Every single regional sector has shown a growth in employment. In respect of the Deputy's opening remarks about the way people do their business now, he should appreciate - as I am sure he does - that €14,000, I think, is now spent online every minute by people doing their business. The way people do their business has changed and it will not go back to the way it was. I cannot speak for Ulster Bank, but we do support the credit unions and the opportunity to provide basic banking facilities in post offices and to give them whatever services can be given. Post offices will not survive unless they are used by people. They cannot be locked away if everything is dealt with online. If they are social centres, which they are, and very important for communication, they must have a range of services that people will use and want to use because that is the lifeblood of business as well.
I thought the Deputy might take the opportunity to say that people with the challenge of cystic fibrosis in rural Ireland are very encouraged today by the decision made by the Minister, the Department of Health and the HSE in respect of Orkambi and Kalydeco.
They live in rural Ireland as well. The Deputy mentioned Cockhill Bridge in Inishowen, which is now in receipt of several million euro as a consequence of interest in rural Ireland. The specific actions and the programme for Government commitments regarding post offices include encouraging social welfare payments at post offices, and the Minister has confirmed that tender. The point is-----
-----how many of all the social welfare recipients in Donegal want their payments paid into banks as distinct from post offices? If we are serious-----
-----about our post offices, people must use them.
They have that right and that choice. We support the roll-out of the pilot scheme presented at Cabinet by the Minister of State, Deputy Ring, and adopted by Government for four hub post offices to be determined as a pilot scheme.
We support also the introduction of the roll-out by An Post of the e-payment accounts system, which will help businesses in post offices. We will also advance the model of community banking that has been so successful in other countries.
I will ask the Minister for Health to respond to Deputy Martin's question on home care packages.
I introduced the situation whereby we have always had statements both before European Council meetings and after them. The meeting on 29 April is not a meeting of the European Council. It is a meeting of 27 members of the European Council. One member is missing, that is, Britain.
Technical or not, it is not a European Council meeting. It is a meeting of 27 countries who happen to be members of the European Council. I am not going to be petty about this. If the House wants to have a discussion on the pre-April 29 situation I am quite happy to do that. I disagree fundamentally with Deputy Doherty, however, because the priorities we have set as a Government for Northern Ireland are all included in the letter from the British Prime Minister. They are specifically referred to in the paper from the European Parliament and are also referred to individually in the paper from the European Council's President, Mr. Tusk. There are a number of meetings taking place over the next week to ten days. We have submitted some further wording in respect of the Good Friday Agreement, what it means and how important that is to the priorities we have already set out. It is a matter for the House or the Business Committee and I am sure the Chief Whip will oblige. If they want to have statements before the meeting of the 27 member states, I do not mind. Deputies have been pretty well briefed on this matter and there is absolutely no shortage of material. We are very different from the Gibraltar case, when Deputy Doherty talks about vetoes.
Any change in the status of Gibraltar is a matter between Spain and the United Kingdom. It is nothing to do with the European Union. We have an international and legally binding agreement in respect of Northern Ireland
We want an opportunity to be able to implement that in full and to have it reflected in the negotiated outcome of the European Council.
That is democracy.
I will ask the Minister for Health to respond to Deputy Bríd Smith's query.
Deputy MacSharry has raised this matter vociferously on a number of occasions. While I acknowledge the wait has been long for sufferers of cystic fibrosis, what the Minister for Health has done here is quite visionary, in that it is a first in Europe. I hope this process can be followed through with other drugs companies and that we will have portfolios of drugs giving certainty and stability to those who suffer from a range of challenges. That will provide them with the best emotional support in the challenge that they face. I would like to thank young Aisling, who I met at the protest in Sligo. She presented me with a letter on behalf of all of those who attended who face the challenge of cystic fibrosis. For them and for users of Kalydeco, today is an important day. I hope that from 1 May it will bring an enhanced quality of life for all those people around the country.  I ask the Minister for Health, Deputy Harris, to comment on the process that Deputy MacSharry referred to.
It is a one-two.
I will have the Minister, Deputy Coveney, respond directly to Deputy Cassells on the points he has made.
I will have him respond to the Deputy.
It is not actually a question on legislation.I pointed out to Deputy Brady and others that between 2004 and 2010, 345 post offices closed and that there have been 37 closures in the past five years. Two post offices in my area closed quite recently. Both were advertised and consultations took place but nobody wanted to take on the job. It is hard to direct that people would do this. What are we doing about this? On television the other night, the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment referred to the national roll out of broadband, which will allow post offices to have access to broadband. We are also actively encouraging people to have their social welfare payments paid at post offices, which is their choice. We support the introduction and roll-out by An Post of the e-payment account. An Post has announced its intention to launch a new payment account from its own resources. It is not seeking Government support for that. We support the model of community banking and this is being processed by the Department of Finance along with the Department of Arts, Heritage, Regional, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs. We established the feasibility of offering a motor tax service and other social services in post offices. This is being finalised with the Department of Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government but will ultimately require An Post to engage in delivery. I mentioned the report brought forward by the Minister of State, Deputy Ring, regarding hub post offices. Four of those will be rolled out as part of a pilot scheme. We will support the establishment of a post office network renewal process based on the An Post plan over five years. I assure Deputy Brady and others that the Government is fully committed to the post office network. This is not an easy situation to resolve. We want to try to give it as many services as we can.
I will have to update Deputy O'Loughlin on the progress made there.
The Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government monitors these things on a regular basis. The special housing unit in the Department has full access to all rent increases, which is why the Minister has already expanded the rent pressure zones. I will bring Deputy Munster's comment to the Minister's attention today.
A total of 10,000 children are involved. That Bill has gone through the Houses so these cards should be on the way. I think a date was fixed for it but it was decided by Government and the Bill has been put through so that should happen very quickly.
This is an interim report. Obviously, it has major implications. The Minister for Children and Youth Affairs set out the views of the Cabinet and Government on the report yesterday. The Government is conscious that the commission has made no findings to date regarding abuse or neglect and believes it would not be appropriate to deal with the questions of redress in advance of any conclusions that will be reached by the commission. In addition, the redress scheme that was there was complex to administer and often difficult for applicants. The Comptroller and Auditor reported recently on the 2002 residential institutions redress scheme and highlighted the cost to the State, the diminution in the value of the offers made by the congregations, the need for evaluations and lessons learned. The focus will now be on assisting those who were unaccompanied as children in the mother and baby homes with a view to offering very meaningful supports that will be of genuine and practical value to them. The Minister for Children and Youth Affairs will consult representatives further about this. We want to do this in a way whereby the State will help and support these people - through the provision of appropriate services - in respect of this aspect of their lives. The Department of Children and Youth Affairs is working with Tusla to support the provision of information to assist former residents who may wish to establish when they resided in a mother and baby home. This might involve very painstaking work on a matter that is obviously very personal for some people who want to find out where their mother was or who she was. Dr. James Gallen from Dublin City University has been asked to assist in the design of a model of transitional justice as a means of giving voice to former residents of mother and baby homes and county homes. The Minister will carry out a scoping review of the commission's existing terms of reference to see if amending them would enhance the existing work and help to resolve related questions.
It will not be taken this session. The heads of that Bill are in preparation but I doubt if it will appear before the end of the session.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 1 to 4, inclusive, together. The Cabinet committee on infrastructure, environment and climate action has responsibility for oversight of delivery of key infrastructure and associated policy, including commitments in the programme for Government. In addition, the committee addresses the climate change challenge in terms of domestic policy, including transport, and in respect of Ireland's EU and international obligations. The Committee does not have any role in respect of industrial relations matters in public transport or any other sectors. It last met on 30 January and a date will be fixed in due course for the next meeting. I chair the Cabinet committee and the membership is comprised of the Tánaiste and Minister for Justice and Equality, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government, the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, the Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport, the Minister for Arts, Heritage, Regional, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs; and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. 
Deputy Bríd Smith raised a question about the Minister, Deputy Varadkar. I disagree with her comments about him. Ministers are well in tune with the many sections of society that make contact with them daily. This case is before the Labour Court. I hope that will result in an early solution which will bring about a return to work for the drivers and members of Bus Éireann, and that members of the travelling public have the service restored to them as soon as possible. For Deputy Boyd Barrett's information, the committee does not deal with individual issues such as those he mentioned in respect of the harbour company in Dún Laoghaire. It is an issue that has been going on for quite some time. I am not sure of the responsibility here in respect of the independence of these companies. I will inquire for the Deputy as to whether the issue that is causing the problem can be resolved or expedited. It is a magnificent facility and has been for so many years. There is always room for potential for the future. I know the Deputy is interested in that. Deputy Brady mentioned the question of the Labour Court. It is not for me to comment on the court's independent way of, we hope, bringing about a resolution. Things are not at a standstill in rural Ireland. I pass through large swathes of it every week. The Government is expanding the public bus service in rural Ireland by increasing the amount of public service obligation money pumped in there and increasing funding to Bus Éireann and to the rural transport programme as well. Bus Éireann got a 21% increase in its PSO funding in 2016. Total funding for both PSO and rural transport will amount to approximately €277 million this year, which is a substantial amount and a €28 million increase on last year. Will the Government subsidise the Expressway routes? No. They are commercial services operating in competition with other commercial services. As with any other commercial operator, Bus Éireann cannot receive taxpayer funding for those services. Taxpayer support is available for public service obligation services. Bus Éireann receives taxpayer funding for those socially necessary but financially unviable services that form part of its legally contracted PSO network with the National Transport Authority. I am sure Deputy Brady understands that. The Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport and the Minister for Social Protection have instructed officials in respect of the free travel arrangements to which Deputy Micheál Martin referred. I hope that will take effect immediately. There was mention of transport policy. Obviously, there are competitive forces at work in the private sector providing transport to many locations throughout the country. The National Transport Authority has a very robust, expanding rural transport scheme. In respect of this particular problem which caused the Bus Éireann dispute, namely, the Expressway service, where Bus Éireann is in competition with private enterprise on motorway routes, if its buses have to come off the motorway and go through towns and villages, it causes a delay for passengers who want to get from point A to point B. The National Transport Authority has said that any changes brought about as a result of a settlement of this dispute can be taken up by the National Transport Authority in servicing areas that might not be serviced in future and by Bus Éireann but that is a matter-----
This matter is before the Labour Court, as Deputy Smith is aware.
They are aware of that, as is the Deputy. I will leave the Labour Court in its independence to make its decisions. Deputy Howlin raised the point-----
I am telling the Deputy that I am not interfering in the issue of the Labour Court attempting to resolve this dispute.
Deputy Smith is mentioning what she thinks is a facility to end this dispute. The Labour Court-----
The Labour Court is dealing with the matter. It is hoped this dispute will be resolved. The court is completely independent in its deliberations, as Deputy Smith is aware. Deputy Howlin raised the need for the forum that the Minister, Deputy Ross, has mentioned. If this matter is settled up, I would expect that out of that forum will come repeated emphasis on the overall strategy for the public transport system.
I propose to take Questions Nos. 5, 6 and 7 together. The Cabinet committee on health last met on 21 March. It will meet again on 27 April. That response is inside the time limit.
I cannot give Deputy Burton an answer to her question because I do not have that information, but I will find out for her. We have discussed previously the opening of a theatre which was paid for by the taxpayer for some years but which has not been opened. On the previous occasion on which this was raised, my understanding was that the appropriate and qualified personnel would be there to commence performing operations. Let us find out. I will come back to Deputy Burton on that. Deputy Micheál Martin raised the question of health policy. It has always been accepted that Orkambi is a game-changer in the sense of improving the quality of life of patients with cystic fibrosis. The problem lay with the price being demanded by the company involved. This is one of the most expensive drugs ever in the history of the State. The pharmacoeconomics group met the company. As Deputies are aware, a change has taken place whereby the group makes a recommendation on whether a given cost is valid. The Minister proceeded to make contact with other Ministers in other countries where similar problems have arisen. In any event, I am pleased the matter has been resolved. It was never a case of not recognising that Orkambi is a valid drug for improving the quality of life for patients. Cost was the issue. The earlier exchange was on looking at the process. This is not confined to Ireland. If this is the first case in Europe of having a portfolio of drugs that provide certainty and stability for patients, then that is probably the way to go. It may well reduce the cost over a five or ten-year period. While Orkambi and Kalydeco will cost a substantial amount of money over ten years, they give that certainty and emotional support for patients who suffer from cystic fibrosis. I agree with the various speakers that cystic fibrosis patients have an exceptional commitment to dealing with their particular challenges. I am pleased that in recent years we have had public expenditure in cystic fibrosis units at various locations throughout the country. The improvement in the air quality in these centres - the air is changed so many times every hour - adds greatly to their comfort and ability to go to the next day and so on. In that sense I am pleased this matter has been resolved. I hope the Minister for Health will now be able to move on to other drugs companies and discuss portfolios of drugs for particular categories of patients who need them. Deputy Micheál Martin spoke to me before about the mental health situation. I know he is concerned about it. I will give the Deputy an update from the Minister of State, Deputy McEntee, on where we stand, what money is being spent and on what it is being spent in order that we can see whether we can progress that matter. Deputy Brady referred to Professor Keane. Obviously, he did his job with the cancer centres of excellence. That was a difficult issue for many hospitals. I disagree with Deputy Brady's suggestion that there is anything like a total systems failure. The vast majority of people who have gone through the public health system have nothing but credit and praise to offer in respect of those who work in the system. In many cases, staff are working under pressure. A total of €14.6 billion has been allocated for 2017 - up €1 billion on last year. We can see how issues can intervene in that in the light of the Orkambi and Kalydeco question.
The problem is to get inside the system in a way that is efficient and realistic for people. That is why we have had pressure in emergency departments. In the context of Wexford General Hospital, for example, the layout of the new emergency department has greatly eased the pressure that used to apply there. That is what we need at many other locations as well and that is part of the plan for the capital expenditure programme. The Minister has visited various hospitals throughout the country. There are particular pressures in some. The filling of posts is another issue. An incentive is being set up by the HSE to bring back nurses and other medical personnel to work in Ireland because we need them. Deputy Howlin referred to the general practitioner contract. Several measures have gone through, as the Deputy is aware, including the universal GP services for all children under six years and all persons aged 70 years and over.
I know that. The category Deputy Howlin mentioned is being examined with a view to implementing it. We did the asthma cycle of care for children under six years and the diabetes cycle of care for adult patients with type 2 diabetes. Obviously, there needs to be a decisive shift in the health service towards primary care.
A number of primary care centres are being built. Many of these close at 5 p.m.We need to look at the contract with the GPs in terms of the way that service is provided. The development of a new and modernised contract, which has not been done for years, is an issue the Minister is very concerned about and one he is obviously working on. He has stated his wish to have that kind of consultation with the GPs to help to chart a future for primary care services. The process that he set up here-----
