Cancer is an awful diagnosis for anyone. Wishing him a speedy recovery.
@Olive Whyte: Agreed.
@Olive Whyte: absolutely!!
Get well soon Enda lad.
Best of luck Enda hope you make a speedy recovery.
Im sorry to hear that. Im sure he will make a good recovery. I liked him when he was Taoiseach
I bet he didn’t have to go on any waiting list of his own making.
@Barney r: There’s a time and a place for everything. Cheap shots at Enda now says more about you than about him.
One of the most decent and honest (there’s a word that some here might find hard to grasp) Taoiseach’s in the history of our country. His takedown of the Vatican is something Bertie (more ash on his head than a fireplace) would never have done.
@Dermot Moran: Or that time he took a dig at Donald Trump on Paddy’s Day regarding immigrants.
A great Taoiseach who ensured that Ireland was protected from the consequences of Brexit by ensuring that the  EU ptotected the Irish position
History may be kind to him, but I can’t stand him due to the austerity years. He was hiding from the public when we wanted answers to the muck they were pushing through the dail at the time.
@Paul Cunningham: bit like the way they are hiding now
@Michael Nolan: there’s nobody hiding now… You might not like what’s being presented but there is no hiding
@JG: watch Ur of that rock
@JG: Ur brain is washed with the current s%ite
@Paul Cunningham: his government invited in the vulture funds. Funnily enough, he got a job with one of em after politics, even tho he has no experience in the industry. An obvious reward for gifting them the chance of a home for thousands of people, which will roll into millions over the years. He’s the ultimate snake. Selling out his countrymen for his own sake.
@JG: You’re right, Donnelly and Watt are just lost, not hiding at all!!
An Accidental leader of the country the man  couldn’t put two sentences together,Was coached by the comms people.At least he worked for a while as a teacher compared to Coveney and McEntee who have never actually worked in the real world.Also the likes of inda Mehole and Hannfin and Noonan held on to their Teachers positions for over 30 years,Blocking  young Teachers from a full time job.How many of the above are multi millionaires from being in government compared to if they worked as Teachers?
Brought in property tax (despite telling the people years previously that FF would tax the roof over your head
@Kevin Murphy: Instead FG taxed the ground under your feet.
4/10, but wish I knew nothing of the man or any of his ilk. In reality, he and many like him, are like our own royal family.
Has to be one of the worst taoiseachs we ever had
@sandra clifford:mehole:Hold my beer
Jesus Christ is this a wind-up??
Great man tough times difficult job
@Splat: nonsense. He was useless
The question concerning the names of Kenny,s imagery friends was missing.
He is getting money for doing nothing welfare resiver
Not one question about his favourite soft drink
He is getting money for  doing nothing
@Peter Cooper: and chicks for free
He brought in the property tax despite telling the people that FF would tax the roof over our heads years prior to that when it suited him to say that and tried to get in water charges only to fail because the people of Ireland stood up to him. Yeah, he will be remembered all right, for being a clown
I know he tried to take my mother’s medical card off her when she didn’t have a job and wasn’t long after getting over cancer. I’ll never forgive him or fine gael for that. I hope they suffer in hell
The less, the better.
He is still a muppet
Probably one of our best taoisigh to be fair, saw us through a very difficult time and won  sailing race with Bear Grylls. What more do you want?
@Tom Anderson: well it would’ve been cool if he didn’t gift the housing market to vulture funds simply for his own personal gain. He bangs on about “the Irish people” and how great we are, yet he gave away so many critical assets for free. Which has caused irreparable damage and destroyed many many lives. All for a plum job with a vulture fund after politics. He’s no patriot that’s for sure. Greedy, sly and dishonest.
@Rob Gale: I second that .
When you write a comment if it does not suit you won’t print it
A  ×#k€r
Paddy wants to know
Didnt take the poll as he was a D.i.c.k that led us before the cabbage , leek and the  worm took over …. I rest my case
His most annoying trait is the way he sniffs between each sentence – Mayo voted all FG TD’s when he was in charge – don’t trust Mayo people!
@Thomas Harrington: it’s the same in most counties. This stoopid “one of our own” attitude. Like they literally don’t care that he went on to hand over all our assets and resources to investors in exchange for a job after politics. He’s from Mayo and that’s all that matters.
I got a C, Enda would probably be ok with that result.
Enough
https://fb.watch/cBtVJ6kD6o/
B 7/10 & sheer guess work
Only2 out of 10Godammit man
Enda Kenny said in 1994 …“It is morally wrong, unjust and unfair to tax family homes.” (Enda Kenny – 1994)BUT refused to vote against the LPT tax on Family Homes in the Dail when he became Taoiseach.Unprincipled … like his class.https://www.change.org/p/abolish-property-tax-on-family-homes
What’s everyone thinking . . .lol
@Bala mc blaha: “I’ll end the scandal of people on trolleys”
@Bala mc blaha: Cha-Ching
@Bala mc blaha: he’s a private citizen, he can join whatever he likes.
@Bala mc blaha: Never liked him, but in he could be doing a lot worse than lobbying for SMEs…. a very far cry for lobbying for vulture funds. I’m gonna give him a pass on this one.
@Bala mc blaha: another day, nothing new here
@John Mulligan: He is a sleveen.
Jobs for the boys.
What a Man, all those pensions, Driving Trains, and now the Cherry on top.
Can’t make this stuff up, his teaching job held open for 40 yrs for him ,preventing someone been made permanent.  Does he actually get a teachers pension?
@Sean: yes but that’s the public sector for you. He’s had more employment contracts than Zlatan has had football clubs. Teacher, TD, minister, Taoiseach, public speaker, broadcaster, columnist, author, director. He has more pensions than a geriatric barbershop quartet.  At 70 he should be enjoying his riches and moving aside to give somebody else a job.
@GrumpyAulFella: greed isn’t something that can be ever satisfied.
I genuinely can’t believe we’re in a situation when I look back at Kenny’s governance of the country with longing…Say what you want about him and his policies but he’s ten times the man and leader of the spineless oik that currently calls himself our Taoiseach.
@John Duggan: ten times zero is still zero.
@Dermot Sexton: haha good one
@Dermot Sexton: a very astute point!
@Dermot Sexton:and yet 0 to the power of 0 = 1
@Dermot Sexton: My God. You can count as well
@John Duggan: are you stark raving mad? His govt did nothing beneficial for the Irish people. He is a primary school teacher if he was even that,. Cronyism, nepotism and jobs for who you know personified by him 200% also.
@John Duggan: That a rather nasty, negative comment ! You are entitled to your opinion but FG got rid of Kenny themselves ! Public Opinion would hardly agree with your comments on present Taosaigh!
Perfect role for him after a political career of lies, betrayals an uturns as Gene Kerrigan once wrote about. No morals or ethics and will fit right into PR and Lobbyism. The manwho said ‘Its morally unjust to tax a persons home’ , ‘End the scandal of people on trolleys’, ‘The man with two pints’ and who could forget his infamous ‘Contract with the People’, that he then reneged on. Will he be leaving his other job as advisor and lobbyist for a Vulture Fund ?. How many pensions has he, Teaching pension?  Remember he kept getting double paid for years, Ministerial Pension? Does he get even more ? Why is he allowed multiple pensions while he is still working when ordinary joe soap has to wait till retirement?He is a prime example of all that is wrong with the cosy cartel.
This a disgraceful and a conflict of interest.
@DB: Is he still a TD? I was under the impression he’s didn’t contest the last election.
@Tricia G: no, he isn’t
@DB: there’s no conflict of interest. He’s not a politician, so there’s no issue.
@DB: how is it???
@John Mulligan: is he not still a FG member and former Taoiseach? Could easily use his connections to give the firm an advantage (would ya put it past them?). I’d like to know what the author also meant by “the Fine Gael – linked firm”.
@James Reardon: Yes, which is exactly why he’s been hired.I was hired in my current job because of contacts I made in my previous one.That’s how it works.Are you suggesting that people that leave a career in politics can’t go on to work in a private company?
@Tricia G: I have no doubt that Enda Kenny is entirely honest and beyond reproach.However, a career in the private sector during which you build a network of contacts, which makes you more employable and in demand because of your contacts, is completely different to the concerns which exist globally, around the special relationships between lobbyists and serving politicians, the reach and impact of political lobbying in the decision making process, and alleged delayed rewards for serving politicians, from corporate special interests for that alleged political influence.
@Tricia G: in your new job can you use government contacts and lobby certain sectors who your pals are in charge of?
@James Reardon: I don’t think he got the job based on his charm or personality
@Derek Lyster: that’s for sure
@John Mulligan: So nieve, of coarse its a conflict of interest. He’s the previous leader of the country, with many connections in government with his previous party taking the reigns again soon. Any current politician can pass policy, award contracts to a company and then join them when they’re finished politics. Feathering your nest.
@Tricia G: all depends what td stands for.
@Tricia G: No but are you naive enough to think hes not still connected to hes former work mates
@Seosamh Ohuaine: Pretty sure I pointed out that’s exactly why he was hired.The question becomes does all former politicians lose the right to join private firms?Considering pensions were updated to only be paid out at retirement age how can a former politician earn if they’re barred from private enterprise?
@Thommo’s Nose: he’s a retired politician, and has no access to classified information. There is no conflict of interest.Anyone who retires from any job has a perfect right to take up any other job.
@John Mulligan: any normal person does but he isn’t one is he, he was a leader of this country, same with any politician. If you believe (based on many a political back hand that’s come to light wouldn’t) that a politician wouldn’t be in a position to favour gov. contracts to a company and later move to that company then there’s nothing to see as they’re a private citizen then I’m sorry, I believe that’s being nieve. If Murphy got a position within BAM after once up as hosing minister then you think there’s nothing to see. Pull the other one. Enda has many pensions and a multimillionaire, he’s hired because he has connections in our current Gov. nothing else.
@John Mulligan: my point is, Enda is entitled to work once he’s finished in politics but lobbying is using influence on current Gov. and civil decisions. We’re a capitalist society where big business is cozying up to ex.politicians ( people of significant influence) to persuade current Gov. to favour decision to go there way, whether that company is the best choice or not.
Companies unionize to form lobbies to influence poorer working-conditions laws is a very FG thing.While companies are against workers who unionize for better bargaining power for workers.
“the Fine Gael-linked firm”??
Good for him! Best of luck to Enda in his new position
@Young Politican: donk
@Young Politican: Bertie Ahern gutted Kenny got another job on top of his pensions.  Bertie only got a dig out and the horses, and was proven a liar. Perhaps Kenny in his new position could use his influence in discovering the garda commissioners missing laptops and mobile phones and the missing millions in Templemore. Easy to understand why Bertie is pissed off.
This should be illegal. Simple as that.
National Broadband Ireland has been a running joke for far too long.
Mayo might win something now that Kenny has left politics. The Mayo curse has being lifted. This pox box has actually got a real job. They only disappointment is that his state pensions won’t be reduced because political pensions are not means tested. Another loophole every ex politician enjoys.
Jobs for the boys
When Ministers get their pension that should be it they should be barred from all other work. They are retired now on a good pension.
@Edmund Murphy: definitely from lobbying or serving on the boards of companies operating in Ireland.
Of course he does… Slippy, slimy fish that he is….
Though at first it was a spoof story…He had got the job from his imaginary friends. Remember the two pint man he allegedly met in the pub. It is immoral to put a tax on homes. Different politics ? He just kept the status quo for FFG.
@Donal Desmond: are you against property tax, the most equitable tax of all ?
Ah good aul mumbles Kenny surprised he didn’t go to the comms PR firm considering the son of the owner of the company used to give him speech lessons.
Boom boom
Yeah it’s just their way óf transitioning onto new and better things after politics. Just like our Media Presenters (I wouldn’t call them journalists) move onto better pay as media advisors for the very Parties they are supposed to report on.
A retired former Taoiseach should not be allowed to serve on any lobbying boards in Ireland. There is far too much potential for corruption
@Mentis Green: how? He has no access to confidential or classified information.
@John Mulligan: Leo has no problem passing on confidential information when incentivized and Kenny would have plenty of info on Gov decisions from former colleagues and the torrent of leaks from FG.
Thank jeebus he didn’t go back to teaching
Imagine this gombeen lobbying on behalf of anything or anyone.
There are no morals, ethics or principles among our political elite. They would sell their mothers for a few Bob. Remember the name Heneghan Strategic Communications and stay clear. Sounds a bit like the beginnings of David Cameroon and Greensil.
Kaching there Edna!
Best man for the job is iron road Enda.
Ah shur twill buy the messages,isn’t that all you’d want.
As they say in cavan “you can fill a hungry man but you can’t fill a greedy man”
For some reason I’m not at all put out by this.
Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
How people still tune in to watch this utter S#ite is beyond me, It’s supposed to be an entertaining chat show on a Friday evening when in reality it’s mainly the RTE elite circle of friends guest starring with the odd interesting real life story thrown in to encourage people to watch.Sure to god there are more deserving people in the country who could come on instead of former politicians
@David Lee: politicians are real life superheroes, if the license fee was doubled, I would pay it to see more of them on tv!
@Tom kenny: try harder Tom….;)
Scandals always dissipate through time and politicians know this, remember when Enda Kenny said it was “morally wrong to tax a persons home”. Chancer.
@Gordon Larney: there was no other way really to dress it up, why tell the truth when a good lie will do.
@David Lee: so very simple question is why do you watch it? I don’t
@Tom kenny: so your the complete AH
@David Lee: I don’t watch it myself, but nobody is forcing you to watch it are they? Suppose your just more interested in looking for attention on the journal.
@Eamon Morris: He didn’t say he watched it. He’s stopped watching and commenting on article
@Tom kenny: Are you on the bottle lol
We’ll move on as soon as those involved receive consequences for their actions and not a moment sooner.
@Rochelle: How much do u want to beat a dead horse …. move on its over….. open the pubs
@Ian Forbes: f the pubs. Open the golf clubs.
@Neil Neart: open both ?
Just like you moved on from “it’s morally unjust to tax a persons home” and your 5 point failure, you might move on from your failures but we are still paying for them, you are absolute failure.
@Tom Bombdadil: was he not blocking a full time teachers position while he was a TD. My guess he gets a teachers pension, TD pension, ministerial pension and Taoiseach pension ! Maybe I’m wrong ?
@Marky Mark:Reports  say    over€ 4 mill,    a  nice little earner!!!!
@Marky Mark: he deferred the teachers pension when he was in Govt but activated it when he retired…..says it all about him
To me Enda Kenny epidermises politics.A TD that took over from his father, became leader of FG when the then Leader Noonan resigned after FG suffered its worst ever general election results, he then only became Taoiseach because the other side, FF, messed up so badly.Success in politics seems to me to be based entirely on the abject failure of those around you, rather than you actually being any good.
@Brian McDonnell: ** epitomises….blasted auto correct…
@Brian McDonnell: I liked the original spelling- I assumed you meant he had skin in the game
@Brian McDonnell: I much more liked your original version! I thought you were being clever about him being a thick skin!!
How much is he earning from taxpayer funded RTE for his new show?
It’s tine to forget about you Mr Kenny
Wouldnt the blueshirts and establishment love to move on from golfgate. Aren’t we great for “moving on” from these things. And the wheel keeps turning with all the fat cats at the trough
@Brian Dunne: Well, by calling them ‘Blueshirts’ it clearly shows the small distance that you can move.
@sean o’dhubhghaill: I know – these lads posting here saying things like blueshirts just shows the mindset – so backward and embarrassing in 2021
@Ro-your-nan: While the Blueshirts have no problem in bringing up the history of every other political  party , yet they seem forget their own history.  O’Duffy and his Blueshirts sailing under the Swastika to Spain. That name will always stick with them.
@Donal Desmond: I rest my case
@Ro-your-nan: Why because it’s an embarrassment to them.
If I get fined for breaking the regulations, I’m going to refuse to pay and tell the judge, it’s time to move on now. Get up out of that your honour.
And if anyone in the public sector releases confidential govt information, they shouldn’t face up to 10 years in prison the way Leo isn’t.
One of the key architects of irelands housing crisis.
The gall of that person telling people to move on and let politicians off.He was happy to bend over backwards to protect bond holders at the request the European troika when the people cried out for them to be burned.He represents everything wrong with politics in this country.He has a very evident them and us attitude towards the electorate.
Doesn’t matter who’s on that Late Late Show, it’s unbearable to watch. Sometimes if there’s absolutely nothing else I turn it on but after about 5 minutes I have to turn it off. Most depressing show on tv.
@Alan Bolger: never watch it Kenny needs to see a barber.
@Mary Oliver: They are all closed.
Good man Enda, could do with a haircut. Ryan’s hair was looking immaculate, how does he manage it.
And the public Woulfe it down.
He was painful to watch……. seemed very arrogant
@Darren Mc Mahon: Alan Partridge
@Vonvonic: back of the net.
@Darren Mc Mahon: Which of them? They are both pains in the hole.
@Darren Mc Mahon: of course he’s  arrogant  he was a TD
@Will Roche: Liquid Politics.
He should enter the Winter Olympics in the Slalom …. he dodged more bullets last night than I care to check.
Listen the day I take advice from enda who knows a man with a pint in each hand or the time we had to pay all our debts back cos the army might have had to be guarding ATM’s Kenny……is the day ill start taking banking advice from Bertie or how to engage in charity work to help the poor from leo….surprised he didn’t do a MM and say it never happened
Plonker
How anyone  could  look at that  thing is beyond  me
Yeah of course Edna. And we need to move on from Beacongate too. We’re such a bunch of ungrateful peasants aren’t we?
Is RTE within 5k of Mayo now??
The state of him on the Late Late. Would remind you of yer man who’s always ‘verra verra drunk’ on the Fast Show.
This story about Micheál Martin just highlights even more how absurd it is that no pictures have yet come out from Golfgate, the only golf event in history with no photos #MicheálMartin #HowIrelandWorks #golfgate
Was there any questions on his role as a advisor to a Vulture Fund, amazing how many ex FG politicians move on to Banking and Finance roles .. I wonder why that is ?
Hes been as quiet as the grave since he stood down, now, all of a sudden, he’s back on TV. Must need some money I guess.
At leas he knows  no one would  vote him into The  Park
Don’t worry Dame Enda the Golden Circle, the vulture fund managers, the bankers etc that busily dipped their ties in the Clifden punchbowl won’t be named, no journalist would have the caqunas to run with a list of attendees at the p*sh up,if they did they would run the risk of government advertising revenue getting squeezed at their relevant media organisation….. the auld nod and the wink…….
Didn’t see it. Did he mention the Moriarty tribunal by any chance.
@Paul Power: I doubt it, sure they moved on from that even before the tribunal and they still deal with Lowry.
Its about vaccinating all of our people so we can get on with the job of ripping them off and screwing them for taxes. He left that bit out didnt he
Typical of both FG / FF they want us all to forget about the last 100 years of favouritism , nepotism & outright political corruption and many of the sheep will agree with him . Rev up and  drive Enda .
Enda served the state well in every capacity he was in. Very proud of him. Set a good example to you aspiring politicians in all parties and none.
@Tim Oleary: A bit early for the cans don’t you think Tim?
@Tim Oleary: Jesus Tim you really need to stop sniffing the glue and put it down if you think a lad who said its morally wrong to tax a man’s home, then brought in the property tax, along with spinning some wild fantasy tales about how if we didn’t pay all the bondholders debts back the army would have to be out guarding ATM’s cos we would have gone broke is some kind of great politician….this lad literally fell over a flower pot cos he was so chicken when being asked a few questions by a TV3 reporter a few years ago
@David Corrigan: Me thinks he’s popped a few valium with the cans
@Tarraing Mo Liathróidí: plus he said and when I put my name to something, I carry that through”Like white man of rgw wild west… he speak with forked tongue
@Tim Oleary: He was what. If it wasn’t for Michael Ring surplus in General Elections he was a goner on several occasions. When he was up for questions by the opposition if he didn’t have his ear piece in feeding him what to say you would have seen the Mooran he was and still is.
@Tim Oleary: Kenny’s legacy….Crumbling Health service, Homelessness, Housing crisis, Vulture companies, Austerity measures to repay for the gangsterism of the banks facilated by FF_Greens who the Blueshirts gladly jumped into government with. Move on ? That’s the mantra of FFG who while bring up the past of other political parties, conveniently forget their own past.
@Geoff Bateman: Did he really say that ?  He signed his name with his infamous “Contract with the People”  and also the 5 point plan and honored neither.  Maybe he meant his Teacher  salary and pension as he carried that through many years as a so called Politician.
@Tim Oleary: Enda served himself well in every capacity he was in.   There i fixed that for you..
@Tim Oleary: The Jamaican Woodbines or with a statement like more likely the crack cocaine Tim !
@Tim Oleary: Dear god. No wonder people keep voting voting them.
His hotline and his overt grading of TDs never materialized. Spoofing sack
So he could travel from Mayo to RTE to talk bullocks with Tubirdy, but I have to stay in my house?
The only thing that makes Enda look good is Leo.
Yes we should move on from golfgateas FG/FF &  the media should also move on from the Bobby Storey funeral,  now we have Taoiseach Micheàl Martin  boxing gate.https://t.co/AEm21iOqHz
Typical lifetime politician completely out of touch with the general public.
Has he or his party ended the scandal of people on trolleys in hospitals as he promised? No? Well why should anyone listen to him as he says a lot but does nothing useful. Pretty much sums up FFGG.
He would say that “Move On from Golfgate” After all he was there ( playing golf ) all be it he left immediately afterwards & Did Not attend the dinner as there was at three Supermacs on his way back to Mayo
Is FG preparing the way for a son or daughter of Enda Kenny?
He’s certainly got some opinion of himself if he thinks he’d just waltz into the role of President. I’d rather vote for Bertie.
How can it be ok for him to travel to Dublin to appear on Late Late non essential travel for a 70 year old and the rest of country told stay home level 5 only applies to some peopleWhy are RTE an exception   are they all vaccinated
He is the spitting image of yer man in line of duty.
@Ally Mc Culladgh: don’t you dare insult poor chief inspector Hastings like that, he actually helps put corrupt people away, enda helps make sure they never get brought to justice and falls over flower pots when reporter’s ask him tough questions
Dude looked like he hadn’t slept in a decade or tubbs found him in a ditch ..
Kenny telling us to move on like when he did with the Garda whistleblowers.Enough now. Better youTell us why you broke lockdown rules to attend a golf jolly . Obviously  he doesn’t know right from wrong either , like the high court judge and tanáiste..Or is it just the rules don’t apply to kenny and his ilk. From his attitude he still seems toHave that opinion.
Chocolate teapots, solar powered torches, waterproof teabags….3 things more useful than Edna Cunny
Looks like he’s sleeping in the park
What’s Enda Kenny doing on T V he’s is now irrelevant he was just boring
No fear of him on his big pension and now a programme and if he traveled from mayo to be there is it necessary he done well  and he made sure the elite were loo kafter
Who would even give this absolute fn over the hill sell the country down the swanny euro lacky kick in the crotch muppet air time …is beyond  me….it would make u stop paying your tv licence
Arrogant hasbeen
Just toddle along there now
Happy to close the Door on the guilty and move on!
They all say that
Get a hair cut Enda,I’m sure Finnola could do!!!!!
Literally every comments section on every article these days is just full of people giving out. It could be the most mundane article but without fail there’s outrage on it. Wtf like!! It never used to be like that.
@Munsterman:Are you giving out, about people giving out?
@Munsterman: because when you have clowns like Enda pontificating, that’s why people are angry, in fact I’d say not one politician has one iota of the anger that’s out there.
@Munsterman: the irony of someone complaining about people complaining in the comments section…..oh dear
@Munsterman: Perhaps people can now see through the likes of Kenny who served not the citizens of this State;but served only to protect the status quo of the banks and big business.
Move on about Golfgate but keep bringing up the Storey funeral????
Are there no barbers down in Mayo working on the QT, as poor old Enda badly needs a short back and sides.
@The Firestarter: So you are criticising him for following the regulations.
The hair is comical on him
True- time to move on. Flogging the poor horses bones at this stage. Nobody cares. All the bitter pills on here lambasting these guys have probably broken loads of covid restrictions. Hypocrites. and that’s from someone who will never vote FG or FF again, but for different reasons…
@Paul Whitehead:  Well maybe FG/FF and the media should practice what they preach and shut up about that Funeral.
@Da Dell: How many; Pensions is he on now.
Who cares,
Seriously, how anyone could have even a passing interest in anything this fella has to say is hard to fathom.
But he is quite happy to talk about GAA gate (or is it more a field)?!?!
This clown could not even run a marathon, and we let him run the country, just when you think it’s safe to forget about him , he raises his head out again.
Because it’s a non-Storey?
I can hardly contain my excitement.
@a: Ends Kenny not a penny! for water charges to the private vultures what that in Irish enda? pay the nurses and they’ll stay! labour fine geal fianna fail jailjailjail themall. the ratings for that will be in the tank
@a: gravy trains.? Could be interesting
@a: old railways, Enda kenny. As gaeilge – doesn’t get much better than that
@a: The gravy train
They never have enough money do they
Well that’s positive..When I first heard he was coming to the TV screens I thought they were doing a remake of Pinocchio.
@l: no the shinners have the monoply there.
@l: I thought they were bringing back Glenroe with kenny playing Miley
@John Nolan: Concidering the recent and past lies and forgetfulness of Phil Hogan think you would want to reconsider your comment. Kenny’s imaginary friends could be seen as lies, but just put down his immaturity.
I can’t wait to not watch this.
Is there no end to the gravy train?…
@Kate Flaherty: somehow I doubt a Irish language show about old railway routes is going to be a big payday! Hardly a gravy train Lol
@John McSweeney: You’re right I’d say he’s doing it for free
Ffs it just keeps getting better. Good old forward thinking progressive programming from RTÉ. What’s the Irish for “I’ll end the scandle of the hospital trolley crisis” or show me the money.  Tg4 is there for that.
@Matt Humphries: your licence fee at work
@Matt Humphries:Leave TG4 alone.Michael D.’s little baby is an excellent service, run on a shoe-string!They keep coming up with marvelous programs from angles nobody else think of.Laugh,I nearly bought a TV licence
Past experience of railroading
@Brianog2: I hope he can hold his train of thought ..
How does RTÉ get is so wrong
Would he ever just take his multiple pensions and f..k off.
Oh sacred heart of Jesus , would be my greatest nightmare to have to listen to/look at him. So I definitely wont !
It’s an interesting subject matter….but my god he’s yesterday’s man personifiedRTE just love this type but do they realise it driver the licence payers mad…maybe it was arranged at the station hotel
I’d rather stick pins in me eyes it’s a noooo from me
Had to check, i thought it was 1st april for a second…
No, no, no.
This is the man that told the people of the west that they didn’t need the western rail corridor opened as he just signed off on 500 million road project (which has turned out to be 1.122 billion so far) and he’s doing a railway show? You couldn’t make this up
There’s a place for this kind of program it’s called Tg4. RTÉ probably produce the most boring home grown shows one could imagine. Needs new leadership and a bit of imagination. The last thing it needs is digging up old retired tds and ex rte pat me on the back aren’t I great person to boost its terrible ratings.
RTE once again stealing ideas from the BBC. Ex politician does documentary on Great  Railway Journeys. I wonder will Kenny wear the same flamboyant threads as Portillo, fluorescent green jacket and cherry red slacks for the Mayo boy.
@GrumpyAulFella: but the British are a bunch of trainspotters- we are not. Virtually nobody will watch this
Just goes to show! The propaganda machine look after their own.
That’s my insomnia sorted so.
Micheal (Enda) O’Portillo
Wow, and for that they are asking for license fees…
A program no one wants by a person no one likes. about a subject not many are interested in such a waste of time
This is a terrible idea. The show itself sounds interesting but why are RTE squandering taxpayers’ money by giving a prime opportunity to a has-been. Is there no new person that they could give this to?
It obviously pays to have sailing buddies  in the right position in RTÉ.
Typical reactionary comments. I’m not a FG fan nor an Enda fan but play the ball, not the man please.I’ll watch, sounds interesting. The rest of you can watch your English Premiereship football games on Sky.
@In fairness now…: Not about Kenny himself, but it is unacceptable that a public broadcaster should be promoting any former head of government, regardless of the country.
@In fairness now…: knob
@In fairness now…: I’m sure there are many talented journalists/presenters who can speak fluent Irish. Enda Kenny has enough tax payer money (and RTE is tax payer money since they need to be bailed out every few years).
@Aidan O’ Neill: I agree with you but he doesn’t need the money. So I don’t think he’s doing it for the money.
@Seanboy: Coming from the likes of you, I’ll take it as a compliment.
@In fairness now…: So you don’t think he is doing it for the money? Ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha, cough ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha, choking now ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,ha,
This show will be the exact reason that the next generation will be fluent Irish speakers
Pog mo thoin.
I seem to be the latest trend when politicians finish their jobs on Leinster house the then get a job on TV channels
I hope they do call it Enda the line. I like TG4 historical programing even if I need the subtitles.
Jesus…. RTE really struggling now.
Public service broadcasting for the 13 people in Mayo who’ll watch this.
Is the lad from the comms clinic going write out the script and give him some speaking lessons before the show.
Wonder if he’ll talk about his job as a vulture fund advisor.???
RTÉ could not persuade him to answer to the people when Taoiseach , now they want him to run rings around us again . Has he found his mojo late in the day?
He could become the new voice of “Thomas the Tank” following in the footsteps of Ringo Starr.
@StephenEganPolitics: Tommy de tank engine. Howaya from the Island of Achill.
Is he still working as an “advisor” to his American vulture fund buddies given them inside knowledge on what Nama is flogging
The headline alone made me Zzzzzz!!!
Good God the amount of WHINGING in these comments. How the hell do your friends and family cope with your incessant complaining every day. Always something to whine about.
@Simon: I wonder was the position advertised?, I’m sure there would be lots of fluent Irish speakers out there with amazing cvs perfect for the job, or was it specifically made for him and tailored to suit?, I don’t like unnecessary whining anymore than the next person but really does he need the few quid or does he need it on his portfolio, I don’t think so!…
@Simon: ahh the FFG press office are back …new name though (Simon)
@Simon: Pot and kettle!!!!
This sounds fantastic. Fair play to him
Hasn’t the Irish language suffered enough?!?!
Why do I pay a tv licence? It’ll be like Thomas the tank engine for octogenarians.
@Ross O’Donnell: you probably watch Sky and other channels that’s why you pay your licence …because that’s what i do.
Seems censorship is alive and well in the journal..Comments removed…It must be Kenny’s imaginary friends.
Don’t forget the late late show is back this week as well
*Yawn*
Was he not head of government when it was suggested that Irish should be removed from the school curricular?
@Gregory Donaghy: you need to check your facts there my good man!
@John Nolan: educate me. My good man.
@John Nolan: also, please take note of the question mark!
@John Nolan: Irish Times ANNA NI GHALLACHAIR Thu, Feb 17, 2011Fine Gael’s crude Irish language policy would undo decades of good work
Times like this I’m so proud to have paid my TV license!!
Shrewd and wise, he played the golf last week in Clifden, took one look at the hotel layout and said, lads, I’m out of here. Old dog for the hard road.
Slan forever my Ireland mo Gra this has to be the end of our love for this sad state.
Christ
Another reason to not pay your TV licence.What a load of tripe. Apparently a food stuff as  toxic as my comment, not to mention RTE.
@Tom Bombdadil: and for about 2% of the population, what nonesense.Who watches RTE anyway, even in english
Looks interesting I shall watch as it’s part of our history.
Well done 2020…I tip my hat to you…
Should give rosenstock some new material!
@John Lyons:What’s the Irish for choo choo?I’m sure the fee for doing the interesting historical piece is modest enough, but if TV4 were to announce that he’s actually donating that fee to a Mayo based charity, all would be well with the world.Enda will probably be doing that anyway, but without the PR.
boom boom.  Great to have him back.  Gift grub and other satirical shows weren’t the same without him.
Go maith
Oof, they tried to slip this one past quietly. Very happy to see FF, Labour and Greens didn’t shy away from challenging this. As the article says, dangerous to start “deleting” reports like this from the Dail library.
Why would he want it removed? The report happened and a subsequent report corrected the record. Seems like an odd request. I agree with Howlin re the egg analogy. The history records are clear on the following events so his name is clear unless there is more to this??
@Mr Snrub: there’s always more to every Irish story but a veil of vanity and a knob of narcissism might be in and amongst
I dunno alot about this but deleting stuff from the records sounds well dodgy…
@MickN: it would be, but once the Supreme Court declared it invalid, in its conclusion, it shouldn’t be there .
@Karl Mc Cauley:Suspicious to me that they would opt to delete the report rather than amend it, or add footnotes.
@Karl Mc Cauley: this being the case should all cases that were deemed invalid over the course of history never to be able to referred to again? Well dodgy
@Lydia McLoughlin: in what way would one refer to an invalid report? Unless of course to suggest that just because a report exists doesn’t mean its right
Surely Shatter is content with having his name cleared and reputation restored by the highest court in the land ?It seems churlish for a former Deputy and his party to be trying to remove reports commissioned by Parliament from the Dail library. What point is being made here ?People are free to make their own minds up whether the report is removed or not. We are in the midst of a Pandemic so a bit of cop on is welcome
Less, unlaying eggs. More like a dog with a bone. Right or wrong, these events are an important part of history.
FG – the “don’t recall” missing minutes/reports party. Now just deleting unsavory embarrassments without due democratic process.  Class act.
The report is just the physical record of the allegations and the resultant investigation and findings, surely there could be a further report included to show the appeal against the report and the decision of the higher court, there needs to be a record in the public interest and to make sense of events particularly when time passes and students of politics look to see the chain of events otherwise this will make no sense.
Put in on the shelf with the Moriorty report
“Moriarty”
History books are written by the winners.
Stinks
I’m very found of McCabe. I think Shatter is a very talented , I reckon he was in disbelief when the truth did get dragged out, I think parts of the country have cleaned up the force greatly but I am sure there is some pockets of misconduct. Shatter was fed to the wolves.
CNTRL + C . CNTRL + V.
SF will be sidelined. Pretending they got a landslide with their 14 extra seats. ,All guff, grandstanding and playacting.They don’t have the numbers. With surplus economy, 3.5% annual growth  and full employment they wont be allowed to wreck it.Its FF plus Dems, Green and sensible independents in minority Govt with support (conditional ) of FG and maybe Labour.SF sidelined and mad lefties sidelined. Thank God.
@David Glynn: You don’t believe in democracy. The party that got most votes was SF.It’s undemocratic of the cartel of FFG to sideline the most voted party.FFG will have their last go should they join again. Not what the people voted .Times a rocky ahead…
@David Glynn: mad lefties lol. You do know that the soc dems consider themselves as a party of the left.  FF won’t solve the housing crisis, homeless crisis and childcare crisis. It will be the same old except their brown envelopes will be now fully recyclable.
@David Glynn: Unfortunately another rainbow minority government is not what the country needs. What it needs now, is a stable coalition of like minded, sensible parties.Failing that, another election.
@Brian Madden: The Social Democrats, and Labour are not parties of the left. They are parties of the centre.
@Willy Mc Entire: but you continually use the term cartel and FFG. If that’s what they are, then using your logic, they got the most votes, the most seats and won the election?
@Willy Mc Entire: The election of a Taoiseach is about votes. What do you not understand about that. SF don’t command anywhere near a majority. Clinton got more votes but Trump got in. Same worldwide.Its about respecting the fact that the vote of every Deputy is equal. Now that really is democracy like it or lump it.
@Feardorcha Ó Maolomhnaigh: centre left
@Brian Madden: More guff. Soc Dems are left of centre. All the “chicken in every pot” crew are so far left they are meeting themselves coming back. Trotskyists, Marxists, Maoists and whatever you are having. All support Maduro, love Cuba and thankfully have no clout.
@Feardorcha Ó Maolomhnaigh: Agreed but the people did not vote that way and you play the hand dealt to you .
@Willy Mc Entire: it would only be undemocratic if Sinn Fein got 51% of the vote and weren’t the party in power.They may have the most votes at 25% or whatever it was but that means 75% didn’t vote for them.If FF and FG form a coalition, their share of the vote is 45% or whatever it is and that’s much more than Sinn Fein’s 25.45% of people voted for parties knowing they wouldn’t go into government with Sinn Fein and thats what they wanted. And I think FFs and FGs commitment to their promise must be respected much like people shouldn’t criticise SF for not taking their seats in Westminster, people knew what they voted for.You can say a lot of negative things about the Irish system but you can’t say undemocratic.
@Willy Mc Entire: You keep going on about the first preference votes 500,000. If only the number one vote counted and all seats were filled by a first past the post after count one. The lay of the land would be FF 48, SF 39, FG 33, IND 17 and GP 9. Check it out for yourself, I’m purely a numbers guy and have no skin in the game.
@Willy Mc Entire: it’s not the Number of votes that count as democratic but the number of actual seats in the Dàil
@David Glynn: but that is where you are wrong. They are going in the direction of getting clout. FFGs numbers are going down. From 69 per cent in 2007 to 43 per cent in 2020. SF will be in government in the republic. It’s just a matter of time. If FF and FG go into  grand coalition it will be an earthquake in Irish policies and the beginning of their end as separate entities.
@Brian Madden: The Spring tide ended in a surge for labour and the same level of support and seats That didn’t end happily. It is not impossible for SF to be in Government at some stage but a lot of their TD’s need to grow up and stop taunting people.
@Brian Madden:SF will never command a majority because Ireland is predominently middle class.
@iohanx: Here we go in black and white, it’s about “class” you believe that middle class people only choose to put their vote to FFG. They chose differently because… you fill in the blanks. FFG middle class, morally bankrupt.
Enda Kenny is my most disliked Taoiseach. An absolute chancer who only got there because he was leader at the right time. If Fine Gael had someone half decent they would have won a majority in 2011.
@Ned Flanders: it’s got to be Brian Cowan or Bertie for me. They inflated the bubble till the end and we’ve suffered ever since.
@Ned Flanders: I’d agree that Kenny wasn’t especially likeable. His two saving graces for me were his state apology for the Magdalene laundries, and his speech in front of Trump about immigration. I wondered where this version of him had been all along.
@Sim0n: yes state apology but still denying them proper compensation. Talk is cheap for these politicians.
@Brian Madden: From what I’ve read there are indeed issues about records of time in the various laundries, which is ridiculous. However over 700 women have received compensation totalling 25 million. No money can replace or truly make up for what they lost and were denied in life. Its start, that needs a satisfactory conclusion sooner rather than later.
@Ned Flanders: Agreed, I couldn’t stand how he was so blind to peoples rage over Irish Water, and hide from the press for weeks at a time. He also had a bad case of assuming things would go his way, such as Brexit and the U.S elections. I won’t forget when he said Britain would definitely make ‘the right decision’ and that ‘we had no plan B’ because he was so confident in the remain side. Such arrogance was a feature of that Dail, with Moan Burton and AK47 around.
@Paul Cunningham: you are forgetting the minister for austerity who rode into the sunset with a job in the EU.
@John Murphy: its Varadkar for me iv seen a lot of smug arrogant Leaders but he’s the worst
@Paul Cunningham: Ireland arranged for brexit before the vote took place by a special group to research the impact and key issues for future negotiations.We had a plan B and immediately started negotiations for it (the backstop).
All about the money. If they weren’t paid , it would happen very quick…
Good work Sean, great read.
That smug multi pensioneer, with his contract
That glorious time in between government formation, when it seemed no bad decisions were being made for once. Then FFG happened. I don’t get why they are following the same charade as last time, FF and FG are the same, so drop the pretense. Hate this pantomime that shows clowns could appear with more leadership skills than this constant squabbling.
That doesn’t mean that he’s not the worst Taoiseach ever . I know that there is stiff competition for that title. But Leo is a serious contender?
@Dom Layzell: he is the worst easily and that’s saying something
@Dom Layzell: short memories here
@Damien Barton: really? Worse than Charles Haughey or Brian Cowan? You really need to look at past performances.
@Dom Layzell: not only the worst and most uncaring but he is pure evil ,like the rest of his party
@Dom Layzell: not only the worst and most uncaring but he es pure evil ,like the rest of his party
@Peter Cavey: hes vying with kenny to be our worst leader, imagine that.. how bad is his performance that hes very very near the top of the list despite all his spending on make up spin and socks! No fan of any of the others btw
@Patrick McCann: back to the stone age please!
@Patrick McCann: pure evil? Some drama queen you are!
@Patrick McCann: ‘Pure Evil’?!  Ah here… you certainly haven’t lived under Haughey with the tax increases and high unemployment as he was living it up!  Or Cowan as he brought the country to its knees and sold us down the river to the Troika?  Or Teflon Bertie – giving it with one hand and taking it all (and more) with the other and hiding behind a shower of liars.
Crime out of control  , Poor Border Protection , No dedicated intelligence service , Armed Forces in tatters due to poor pay and poor terms and conditions . White Collar crime rampant.  Inconsistent sentencing for serious crimes . Lack of investment in education system and still mostly under the e his of Catholic Church , Our universities are slipping in the global ranking . Our HSE is a basket case , No investment in mental health , Massive housing crisis , lack of investment in water , public transport etcWe are  going backwards not forwards
@JDB: Deep breaths… breathe slowly in… then out again. Granted the choice of running “Leo Varadkar’s third Christmas as Taoiseach means he’s no longer the shortest-serving office holder” probably wasn’t the brightest idea to celebrate first thing on Christmas morning for a media org. Not exactly a milestone to celebrate for some of the reasons you outlined.But really, “Poor Border Protection , No dedicated intelligence service , Armed Forces in tatters due to poor pay and poor terms and conditions.”?? Are we expecting an invasion by Mexico or perhaps the English again?Enjoy your day and try not to bore anyone at the Christmas table.
@JDB: Couldn’t agree more with that comment. The country is in tatters unless you seeing it from the ivory tower.
@JDB: dude you need to fix your rose tinted windows.
@Mick Rooney (TIPM): Spot on. The man isn’t my cup of tea, however when you compare him to his predecessors, he’s not so bad. I mean to the best of my knowledge, he’s not corrupt. He shoots from the hip, which occasionally gets him into bother, but all in all, we could do much worse. Bertie and Enda just has to be the most uneducated and embarrassing leaders of all time.
@JDB: we do have a dedicated intelligence service.  The fact you are not aware of them means they are doing a good job
@Andrew Kavanagh: we actually don’t have a dedicated intelligence service .
He was was not elected by the people. He’s only Taoiseach because of his party.
@Brian Heffernan: no Taoiseach is elected by the people, that’s the president. The Dail elects the Taoiseach
@Brian Heffernan: Yeah, pretty much been that way with every Taoiseach since the foundation of the State, history books are cool for knowing about how your country operates.
@Brian Heffernan:That’s the way in this country. The Taoiseach  is elected by the Dail
@Brian Heffernan: how were all the other leaders elected oh wise one?
I like him, he is a leader who you can be proud of when he goes abroad, he is not bigoted like so many leaders nowadays. He is not corrupt like so many of our past politicians either.  Everything is not perfect in Ireland but we have full employment and we are starting to deal with that 200 billion debt that the fianna fail government left us with. I am amazed with the amount of negative moaners on the comments section of the journal.  Cheer up its Christmas
@Wesley Conboy: I am sure all the homeless parents and kids in hotel rooms this morning will be jumping up and down with joy with you Wesley.Enjoy your day.
@Wesley Conboy: totally agree.A proper leader ,intelligent and articulate,  thoughtful person.Country is doing well with very little unemployment. Homelessness an issue but it is the case in most countries and cities.Rampant in UK. Homelessness or in temporary accommodation or rented accommodation unfortunately is part of modern day life, and will  never be solved for numerous reasons.
@John Kenny: oh dear, what a clown you are.
@Wesley Conboy: Well said Wesley and John below, on principle I could never vote for Fine Gael, and I never have. Enda Kenny’s government treated people with appalling disdain, and they have far too many arrogant and out of touch TD’s and Senators. That said, Leo and Simon Coveney have done a superb job representing our country throughout Brexit and various trade deals. A lot of legacy issues inherited that have become worse though such as health and housing, so a black mark on those portfolios among others. A lot of people feign concern about homelessness, but it’s so transparently just a cover for their prejudices against Varadkar’s personal traits, not to mention a lazy response to every article about Varadkar, “homelessness, muh!”.
@Wesley Conboy: any drugs left?
@Wesley Connor: go away you blinded lick arse he’s an narcissistic nasty individual who looks down his nose at the vulnerable in our society like all well heeled Blueshirts
And a nice fat pension to collect that he doesn’t deserve.Hey Leo let us know what you had to contribute to get extra ordinary pension benefits
@Tom’s: there is always some biring idiot on about pensions!
It’ll be his last Christmas as Taoiseach too. A wretched bunch
@Roy O’Rourke: very unlikely that it will be his last Xmas and if so we get Martin .
Still a w*nker though..
I think Leo has done well, our economy is flying despite Brexit. 10,000 UK people are coming across each year to a better, more egalitarian country. He’s made many mistakes, yet at least admits them. Like Ends before him, Leo is a credit to us on the international stage. I say all of this as a Fianna Failer!
@john mounsey:  Any comments on all the social issues we have in the country John or should we give you time to remove your blinkers?
@john mounsey: Jesus you’re some joke probably speaking out of your large wallet
The worst government ever by far
@classic: How could it be worse than Berty Ahearne’s government that bankrupted the economy
I don’t understand all the hate he gets. He’s a very respectable taoiseach when compared to pretty much every taoiseach we’ve ever had. Wish he’d do more to fix homelessness and housing though.
@Gerald OBrien:  It’s not hatred Gerald. Leo is no leader. His style of management is very childish based on his smart alec responses in the Dail when he is challenged. He is not very assertive either. In all honesty, he would be lucky to have a low level managers position in any private company.
@Gerald OBrien: read your entire comment out loud to yourself again and realize how ridiculous it is
@Gerald OBrien: Think its just the journal but Im not seeing anything so negative against him anywhere.And when asked here no one here puts up any alternative suggestions for the post.
@Gerald OBrien: he’s a bloody fraud he’s detests his ego not being massaged
Let’s hope it’s his last one enough is enough time is up sockboy
Not my taoisach
@Diogenes:No need for that language on Christmas morning.
New year will rectify that situation
There is an opening for 2nd place though
@Jim O Connor: standard practice for all anonymous whinging trolls
Oh give it a break Enda. Full of hot air as usual.
@Ciaran Farrelly: Maybe you should actually check out what the task force has achieved since it was set up rather than share your ignorance with everyone.
@Ciaran Farrelly: Let this plan have a chance! Don’t knock it unless you have something better to put in it’s place!
I see the taxpayer stopped paying for his make up anyway..
Coming from the person of questionable parentage that created the problem in the first place along with his buddies I think that’s rich !!
The bold Enda ‘I will end the scandal of patients on trollies’ KennyStraight after he got FG into power, he then downgraded Roscommon hospital and closed down 90% of the wardsYou are a liar and a conman Kenny, would you ever just FO
@@at: Why don’t you run yourself @@at, you made your point and, things aren’t as you would want, run for election. We need good people!
@Dom Layzell: if I were in a position that I could devote ALL my time to helping other people, politics would be the last thing I would get involved in.Political is not about helping others, it is about lining your pockets
@@at: That’s my point. You could start the revolution to change things and make it more decent! Or do you think that there is no way to improve? That would be extremely sad?
@Dom Layzell: you should read up about George Lee’s attempts to effect change and how he was thwarted at every turn. He has to walk away from politics
@@at: roscommon hospital is running at full strength this week. Definitely not at 10%. Just sayin.
They need to start with o’connell st, It used to be so much nicer, No it’s just an eyesore, unused grey slab.
@Trevor Donoghue: “now”
Anyone I know from NIC is very proud.
@Rebecca De Stanleigh: 100% Rebecca
@Rebecca De Stanleigh: born an reared!!
@Thomas Maher: so does that mean that nothing needs to be done? I come from the country and I am proud of where I come from! But lots and lots of things could be better where I come from!
@Dom Layzell: Breath Dom, count to 10!
EndaWhen you are on your rare visit to tje big schmoke.call to Jim Gavin and see how much he wants to manage MayoMichael ring has a bit left in the rural develop ent budget
The likes of kenny, Pascal, Noonan and the majority of fg have absolutely no shame, they’ve knowingly destroyed men women and children’s lives through their actions, embarrassed and ashamed i ever voted for them.
Then ask your cronies to stop selling it out and promote local communities to come together rather than divide them. Simple enough.
Apart from the mandatory, everyone else is at fault, ffg, vulture fund, homeless, it would be good to add ideas that have worked well in other countries. A simple one is to stop NIC being used as a rat run, and remove most through road. This would reduce speeding, allow kids to play, and enable teens be part of wider communities instead of being trapped in slums. Secondly, reintroduce community services such as waste disposal, creches and community childcare schemes. Finally, create mandatory community employment for long term unemployed when out of work, and finally retire justice Nolan to ensure that crime doesn’t pay.
@Brin: they have waste disposal.
Dublin always had pride
@Margaret Kane: Great to hear that Margaret.
And this is the same Enda Kenny who gave our cultured fiends their own ethnic minority
@Darren: Agreed, In my book, we were all born equal. Why do we need to create division by the establishment of one group or another?
I’ve more confidence of having a solid bowel movement after a feed of bad stout and out of date beans than anything that comes out of that clowns mouth!!!
Large scale social housing projects in the inner city are just not working. When times are tough people resort the crime and drugs are rampant. And times have been tough.
@Myles Fleming: there were significantly more social housing units in the city in the past and significantly less crime.
Enda stealing Leo’s thunder
Easy know there is an election coming when fg drag him out to face media thought he retired…
@Martin Smith: One way to lose an election. I’d be keeping him out of the spotlight.
Resurgence?? Back to good old Charlie Haughey,, @DarraghOBrienTD
Who ?
@Karl: related to the man with two pints in his hand. But could not afford warter
Say the man who only votes enough times in the Daily so he can claim his expenses!
@Ferg: Dail
Still a Gob_S
Crawl back under your rock enda
He gets 300 thousand a year plus expenses thanks to Leo, I’m sure he gives a rats…
The first politician who calls for more prison spaces will get my vote. Its time we locked up violent criminals and welded the cell shut.
Will Shane Ross be meeting him at the airport? Only right that he gets a big homecoming.
@Pa Curran: I can imagine ross standing up to make the speech already “welcome home Edna “
I was having a very pleasant Friday morning til you reminded me if that Boll!x
@McNulty Jimmy: Bit early for a can I suppose. :-(
@David Corrigan: it’s always beer o clock somewhere in the world
@McNulty Jimmy:pity Bear didn’t eat him…
@David Corrigan: no such thing as too early  for a can
We seem to love hearing about our ex politicians and their extravagant lifestyle courtesy of the tax payer, great little country we live in.
@Scorpionvenomm: curtesy of the tax payer???
@Scorpionvenomm: couldn’t give a shyte about what the MayoMoron gets up to.. another useless lump with an obscene pension
Certainly beats sitting around at home watching Countdown.
@Peter Cavey:  Him and Noonan are still TD’s. We’re paying their salaries and their numerous pensions. I wonder when did either of them last attend Dail Eireann? Not that their attendance would make any difference whatsoever.
@Ciaran Coye: so, he’s not allowed to take a couple of days to enjoy during the Dáil summer recess?Got it.
@Chin Feeyin: A couple of days break away from doing what exactly?
@Ciaran Coye: they’re on holidays at the minute, in fairness.
@Ciaran Coye: I thought Noonan was put out to grass by now
@Gus Sheridan: Noonan and Kenny ………………….Traitors to the core
@Chin Feeyin: he’s only attended once since he left office
@Ciaran Coye: They don’t get pensions as they are still TDs. They changed the rules in 2011. No-one who left office since then gets a pension until they are retired and over the retirement age. That is why lots of FF TDs quit in 2011 – to get pensions under the old rules. And yes they still attend the Dáil.
fair play…
Also crewed a FG government that screwed and continue to screw the nation…
@Willy: Christ
@Willy: take a break Willy
@Willy: And a happy Friday to you too, Willy.
@Willy: well said willy,ignore fg Twitter bots
Isn’t it great the lifestyle you can lead with multiple pensions. In the meanwhile Food banks were never seen in the country until Enda Kenny came to power. Wednesday evening over 400 people queued for a food handout outside the Bank Of Ireland in Dublin. That sight never occurred either until Enda Kenny came to power.
@Dave Doyle: The various  Penny Dinners charities have been operating since the foundation of the state. The church and the VDP have been giving food handouts to the poor for even longer. Do you know anything about Ireland Dave?Is this some stuff you read on Facebook? Or were you there? Who were these 400 people? have you any actual evidence this occurred? Or are you just making stuff up again?
@CrabaRev: Photographs all over social media showing it. You’re just one more FG shill wanting to deny the reality of how FG policies affect the people of the country.
@Dave Doyle: Social media is not reality.
@CrabaRev: It is when FG are trying to control it’s content.
My Neighbours cat had kittens .
It’s easy to forget since hes done nothing for years but he’s still an active TD along with Noonan.
Enda Kenny…not a Penny!!!
Was it just the two of them sailing the vessel or an active part of the crew, or was he a passenger?
@Edmund Murphy: Part of the cabaret entertainment I would have thought
Glad he’s enjoying his retirement some serious begrudgers out there. He worked hard for his country and served it as best he could. Granted that best was pretty woeful
@5hbeZh0I:Well done Enda, dont mind the begrudgers and naysayers. The economy has well and truly recovered under your inspired leadership.
@Colonel Grant: thanks for the flattery of presuming I’m the ex taoiseach. The economy has recovered…
@5hbeZh0I: But he has not retired
Surprised it didnt sink like the way he sunk this country
the p**c* really enjoying his retirement when most pensions are struggling to pay a tax on their home which he is responsible for
The 2020 Queen’s List, Sir Enda Kenny, KBE, celebrated environmental campaigner…
And? Why is this important? Or even news There are a lot more items that are more newsworthy or are u that lazy
@Sportmad: Clickbait. How long are you reading the journal.ie now?
The yacht was called “Millionaires Row”
I’ll never doubt Bears ability to survive the most grueling of conditions again
But can he drink his own piss!
@Joe McDermott: Well he boiled ours for long enough but not sure if he drinks it!
@Mel Fitzpatrick: F.F done that
@John Tobin: That old nugget doesn’t work anymore, F.G have been in government for 8 years
@Joe McDermott: he’s been taking the piss your years
So what
Enda Kenny..Bear Grylls ..in the same sentence..FFS !
He wasn’t playing about on the taxpayer he was doing his bit for Charity and at the same time enjoying himself good luck to him just shows the human in him.
Enda operated the spin-naker sail
“I am a Sailor, you’re my first mate, we set sail together on our first date”
And they say tragedy only happens at sea. Obviously not working yesterday so
Was is sponsored by “lilt”
May he have a good retirement, he deserves it.
Kids are grown up and the wife is probably sick of him looking up her hole for weeks on end so she was probably glad for him to spend some time racing the dinghy with all the posh folk.
Feck enda clown  & dislike enda for years
Well!! Pmsl!!! At least the Journal has a more accurate headline than the Irish Times or the Indo who proclaim he won  the racw with an afterthought of others being there too! He couldnt win a Fianna Fail raffle in a country parish!!
Kenny and FG; Tories through and through
Boom! Boom!
One is a man used to surviving in deadly hostile environments where everything you see is out to kill you- the other is Bear Grylls.
Whatever floats your boat.
Our very own Capt. Edward Smith…..
…at any stage during this did he drink his owe phiss to survive ?
Who or what’s Enda Kenny ?
Sweet lamb of whatever God . Hardly news
When did the TD for Mayo last turn up for work?
This is further proof that an alternative universe / timeline was created when CERN was switched on…..TrumpBrexitBojoLeicester Cityhttp://waterfordwhispersnews.com/2018/01/16/sorry-but-we-accidentally-ended-the-world-in-2012-admits-cern-scientists/
Watchin an old documentary ,Roger @ Me, scary parallel then and what happens in this country..
Just wondering how floating about on expensive yachts with British titled personalities helps African wild life, & how is the bubbly & prawn titbits paid for?Is their a corporate sponsorship to this charitable exercise?Although tigers are not African, Enda, Bertie, & their teams fairly done for the extinct Irish tiger economy, so perhaps the association is a bit unfortunate in this context.He doesn’t look like much of a sailor anyway, a bit sea sick by all appearances.
Rumour B..B..B.. Bertie taking over from Galvin to start the DubsDicks for Six .
What a gimp. Hate him
Bear sold outBecame a media slutAnd his career has boomed
Well, at least he’s not on RTÉ radio talk shows every third week, dishing out advice.Seems to have kept his head down. Am no blue shirt, but, I DON’T think he’s been the worst.
A pity it didn’t sink and take the slimy B….. D with it…
The salaries are unjustified
@Denis McClean:How dare people have jobs.
@Brinster: you a an idiot if u think that’s why people are mad
Why does Michael D Higgins need an adviser?
@Valthebear: you can’t just saunter of to the canaries alone, can you?
Why do we have the cost of politicians AND the cost of advisors. Surely the advisors can be appointed to the job with predefined job targets and we get rid of the politicians OR we only allow qualified people appear on the ballot papers for the jobs they want to be appointed/elected into. Is this to simplistic an idea to save the country millions – #handynumber #loadofballicks
@Richard Connell: if the party put the candidate up for election based on nepotism, family traditions and the electorate vote them in because they like a familiar name or party loyalty and the td is a cute hoor likeable sort who touches political skin well then essentially you have a minister who is out if their depth and need a team of advisors. Others advise on strategy to put opposition down rather than public interest. Others are for pure spin to sell an idea to electorate.  Others have jobs to keep secrets secret and advise how key appointments of friends can sort. Others deal with big business and the EU needs us to tow the line so you need advisors to haggle there for your own or country’s interest. The basis that the electorate is passive and easily fooled helps.
@Chewey Bacca: is that not what public servants are supposed to do? All departments have a team of highly paid professionals who have been employed to be the link between the department and the admin/public. Paid advisors outside of those provided with a public position should not be discretionary – party for then privately all they want, but not out of public funds.
@Renton Burke: yes and there are good public servants who have the country’s interests at heart regardless of government. I was just addressing Richards question. But the growth of advisors, masters of spin and self interest is a trend that has grown exponentially since the days of PJ and Charlie. We are copying the American and British model. Personality politics with no substance and a view that the little people are easily codded. Since we are a small country it really is a piece of cake to carry this out and keep going.
@Richard Connell: Well the last GP that was minister for health did a great job…….. Not.
Sickining the way money is spread like confetti at government levels
@Gerard Heery: I know, you’d nearly think it was a national sporting body.
Smiling to themselves after kicking the ppl of this country while they were already down
@Eddie Kelly:Why bother with a civil service at all?Or a Government for that matter?We could save billions if we just abolished politics and politicians.You can make all the decisions Eddie. You’re clearly a genius.
@Brinster: spot the triggered political cult member
Not one of them scraping a living..The trough has been good to them.
@tommytukamomo: to be fair the SRE role in Google was unexpected. Only one in the list with a job not depending on contacts – not that you could add “being politicians sound board during alleged kidnapping” on to your CV.
It’s like a disease being able to change itself from one disease into a parasite???
No point in seeing what our ex politicians are doing. They’re all lobbyists (unfit for anything else).
Honestly, of the ones that moved on, they wouldn’t inspire you. One fella moved onto vice pres of the EU bank, thats good, but the rest, a mixture of pr jobs, lobbying jobs, an engineer at google, local radio, startups ….
There are plenty multinationals in ireland, you’d think there should be opportunities for some of them there, at a global level, if they were good enough, but no.
@Adrian: excellent point
Tax Joe Soap to his knees for these …Disgusting behavior…We need change..
Hey Journal. Where’s the article on ministers assistants being overpaid that you put up at 12:10 last nite??? Hiding it at 12:10am was sus enough but now tis gone altogether???
@GrahamMManning: apologies. Back and with original comments. Xoxo
How’s biffo’s situation?  Nothing trivial I hope.
@JeremiahMcDonagh: Heard nothing and they didn’t move him to a real hospital so he can’t be too bad.
Dear God …
@Willy:It’s all about money for the blue shirts. Tax breaks for the crony’s in big business. Indja the ninja is a veteran back slapper and a great friend to the corporates. No better buachaill for the insider info.
@Willy: you took the feckin words right out of me mouth Willy
@Paul Gurney: that pat on the head was worth it Edna!
The corporate thank you to kenny for being so loyal while in office
On top of a gold plated pension…Not bad for a teacher that only worked for a few years in his life.
@tommytukamomo: they all have pensions, even Jarry Adams has multiple pension and houses
@Patrick O Connell: and that interests me why exactly!!.The article is about Kenny and that is who I am commenting on.Hold off for a while, I’m  sure there will be an article about others with gold plated pensions getting  prestigious positions.
@tommytukamomo: just letting you know every politician across all divides get pensions
@tommytukamomo: not bad for a totally brainless moron of a gombeen….it pays to be full of shit in Ireland obviously..
@Paul Gurney: He plays the “gombeen ” but is one smart man .He has avoided work all his life and look where he is now.We are the gombeens here by voting for the likes of him and supporting him with our taxes.
@tommytukamomo: I am sure its a real easy job being Taoiseach. Just dossing around all day in your vest and underpants watching Jeremy Kyle.
@tommytukamomo: there is a lot of people out there avoiding work all there life getting free houses and medical care etc
@CrabaRev: What did he ever achieve?
@David Corrigan: What does any politician achieve?
@CrabaRev: Apart from tormenting 4.8 million people, I guess nothing much.
Guess it pays to fxxk u your country over.
He “led Ireland through the global financial crisis”? Really? What exactly did he do to achieve that monumental goal?
@David Corrigan: He used his government’s big majority to reform the health service, reform the legal profession, reform the Seanad, give report cards for his ministers, have a contract with the people….. actually wait a minute, that was only in his head….and on his manifesto
Undoubtedly linked to Vulture Funds. Thanks for slicing up the carcass of your country for us to feast on Enda, now here’s your reward for being a good boy.
Kenny, go back into the woods and duct tape yourself to a tree like a good lad.
The whole world is one big bluff
Political retirement; the time of life when a career full of Quid pro quo’s are repaid.
@El Sparko: he’s still a sitting TD
I wonder will all the FFG journal lovers respond to this article or are they all gone into hiding.
The bigger the thicker you are in politics the bigger reward you get in Ireland it seems. Wonder what happened to the extra gardai on the streets that he promised in his election lies? Hospital trolleys didn’t work out either, did he tear up the contract he signed with us?Should have stayed in teaching, would have done less damage to us all.
@Gus Sheridan: I agree, Jarry Adams wrote a cook book
@Patrick O Connell: You are clearly in awe of Mr Adams.
@Patrick O Connell: Joirry not given a job for the boys, he had to do something
Just a shame he wasn’t part of the diaspora!
The gravy train never stops and those with their snouts in the trough are always at it
@Jonny: too right,Mary Harney made chancellor of u l,the gravy train rolls on  for the select few in the know
@john gorey: wouldnt be much gravy left after mary had been on the train id bet !
Unfortunately that’s the way the game works in all European countries and the US..while in office look after corporate and financial interests to the detriment of wider society and when you leave office your palm will be greased..appointments to boards and the lucrative speaking fees are the legal bribery in the supposed democratic world
So the man who sold the country off to vulture funds has signed up to help the same vulture funds continue to work with FG to destroy the country. #VultureWave
Sweet Jesus… After F.F. brought this country to it’s knees, Kenny and his crew made it worse , can only imagine the advice he will contribute.
A) Enda Kenny has not retired. He is a TD for Mayo. He is being paid to do a job he is not doing.B) “equity” firm means vulture fund. Funds that Enda and Noonan welcomed with open arms.This man is shameless and is being rewarded for putting Irish people through years of austerity.
Ah sure god help enda he needs a top up !
The pure greed of Irelands  puppet politicians has no boundaries !
Hmmm i guess he will resign his dail seat now …he is still a sitting TD…
Can’t see him bringing much to that role. Its the same for all our gombeen FFG politicians, shows how unqualified and incompetent they all really are. Cowan hasn’t established any new career since his debacle, other than making the tea for dob.
@Adrian: part time Guinness test pilot too is our Brian Clown
…on the plus side, though, I never really knew what he did when he was in office. So that lovely little bio has set me straight.
One day these guys woul have to be stopped.
@CrabaRev: His close friendship with the maltese tax exile and siteserve is enough proof for a lot of people, including me.
Jobs for the boys curruption all the way they are laughing at us we are like sheep
There should be no surprise here…… for anyone! Kenny was always seen to be feathering his own nest, just like the corrupt, immoral party he comes from! Varadkar & Co. are equally treating this country as their own cash cow, positioning themselves for top pensions, cushy jobs and taking responsibility for their blatant failings! It’s time voters put the good of this country first and voted these elitist parasites out of government…. then we will see this country flourish for all, not the few!
@Niall Binéad: wonder was 1916 worth it after all?  No leaders in Ireland just corrupt overpaid slugs
@Niall Binéad: Have any of them criminal conviction for membership of terrorist organisations?
@CrabaRev: not sure ‘anonymous’, you should research that, I’m sure you can manage that, and while you’re at it, staying on topic!
@Niall Binéad: I thought you might know, I believe you have done a lot of research on members of the Dáil down the years.
@CrabaRev: okay then, you can’t stay on topic…… another anonymous, cowardly, government defending troll!
This man is not competent to be in charge of a wheelbarrow.
The only advice he is qualified to give is on how to live a life of nepotism
Wow, another shining example of the corruption and shameful nest feathering of the FF/FG cartels.
There’s no hitch on the coffin!
Right there you have it
OMFG
Money follows money but I can’t understand why anyone would employ that idiot
Great to see Enda Kenny back in focus.  He is honourable, principled, knowledgeable and experienced for such a position. He served our country well over a difficult period of economic instability.
@Tim Oleary: Hi Enda
Why did no Irish media outlet investigate this, it’s a huge issue
@Irish Genius: Because any journalist who tries to hold power to account in this state in any meaningful way gets blackballed e.g. Gemma O’Doherty after she broke the story on Martin Callinan.Instead we get spoonfed stories about leos socks.
@Irish Genius: I’d imagine because Ireland’s version of Donald Trump forbid it.
@The Risen: You mean the Irish Katie Hopkins?Really clutching at straws.
@Irish Genius: Friends of friends unlike FB lol.
Cue the list (also known as friends of kenny), who will make statements saying they were never lobbied by their “friend” kenny, and thats supposed to make it OK then!
I also think sandberg was playing them, being intentionally extra nice to them when they were supposed to be stern to facebook about their business.
I’ve long said Kenny and the rest of the parasites are rotten to the core, I truly hope someday the truth comes out about what many politicians have done,not to be trusted whatsoever under any circumstances.
@Jonny:It wouldn’t be a scandal by Irish standards.FG/FF would sell their Granny’s for a touch of US investment. No problem going to court with the EU on behalf of Apple and the annual tradition of cow towing to the US President in the White House every Paddys day. The 51st state and all of that.Winky winky backy slappy.Proudly promoting cronyism since 1926 with a hearty laugh.
Of course they would, wouldn’t they? It is not as if there would be a paper trail to uncover what went on.
As if they were going to say yes he lobbied us….   FFG Out…
Checked the Indo and other online “newspapers” this morning, not a dickiebird about this scandal. Rest assured were it someone remotely connected with SF it would be headline news for a week.
Don’t know what’s all the gasp shock horror for this is the man that sold the country to the lowest bidder ..fn parasite.. .journalism in Ireland haha give me a break…
@Michael Nolan: who did he sell us to … I think we still own Ireland last time I looked it up…
@John Kelly: him and his mate noonan goldman sacs …vulture funds ….did nod off for a decade or 2 ..in a few years you won’t be able to buy a house .have another snooze check back when your proper rested
@John Kelly: The way FG have things running, soon enough, there won’t be a brick, a block, or a blade of grass owned by a native Irish person in the country.
Sniffs the air cos there’s an awful smell of BS all of a sudden
@David Lawlor: Of course there is. It’s always in plentiful supply here at The Journal.
Once again we have to turn to the UK newspapers to tell us whats happening in this rotten little state. Shameful.
@The Risen: no we don’t… it’s a .uk spin pile of shite … rubbish journalism
@John Kelly: ‘A UK pile of shyte” based on court papers? The only shyte is what’s coming from FG supporters
The ODPC enforces laws. I thought the alleged lobbying was at the law-making level?
I’m not a fan of Enda Kenny or a supporter, but remember, this report just happens to come out now, from a pro Brexit anti Irish source. I’ll wait and see how it develops before I condemn Kenny on this issue. There has never been anything in his career to indicate he’s corrupt so even if he did do he most likely was thinking of jobs for the country, like he’s supposed to do.. If it happened, it’s a misjudgenent on his part, but in the interest of fairness let’s wait and see.
@James Wallace: The Observer is a left-wing  decidedly anti-Brexit newspaper with a high reputation  for accuracy.Incidentally, it is also generally sympathetic  towards Ireland.
@James Wallace: Report actually comes out of Court documents in California, It`s not made up by an pro Brexit and anti Irish source though.Unless you are privy to info the rest of us aren`t.
@Brendan Greene: James just got schooled…
Of course not blueshirts
If it quacks like a duck,and walks like a duck, ITS  A DUCK.
Of course not blueshirts  never would they seek to influence
Well in fairness he did say ‘categorically’ so he must be telling the truth.
It would be very hard to ask him anytime now he never in work if I don’t go to work I don’t get paid
He was always alittle weasel cosying up to the Yanks and acting like Darby O Gill in the White House on Paddy’s Day.
@Jonathan Beatty:“If he were innocent…”Fair play Jonathan.Get the slander in immediately.
Yet again it’s took an overseas newspaper to uncover and print questionable items that RTE and Irish media won’t inform its citizens fully about.
@Unitedpeople: Thank you. Probably the most insightful comment on this.
@Unitedpeople: I agree. But we should also be aware that the media in the U.K., as they draw close to Brexit, is looking for opportunities to undermine FDI in Ireland. That said, disgraceful if true.
@Squiddley Diddley:The Observer / Guardian is the most left-wing commercial news organisation in the English speaking world. They have a very clear agenda on all their stories. An single internal memo where a Facebook executive thinks the Irish Taoiseach may support their viewpoint on EU Data Regulations is not evidence of him lobbying on their behalf.  But it makes a great click-bait headline on the Journal.The established Irish media generally tend to be more a little more circumspect in their approach. That is a very good thing from any media organisation
@Unitedpeople: Spot on!
@Orla Smith: The Guardian – probably the most pro remain media outlet in the UK, along with The Independent and now The Daily Mail under new ownership. If you want pro Brexit, go read The Daily Telegraph.Why was the last inquiry, for which FB was fined, taken from Ireland by the EU to Brussels when it was the responsibility here to undertake it since their European HQ is in Dublin?
@CrabaRev: Kenny offered to lobby on FB’s behalf. There’s nothing “think” about it. The Irish media hide the truth about the endemic political corruption in the country.Enough with your FG spin and lies.
@Unitedpeople: I query the surprise FG benefactors own most our media
@wattsed56: This journalist is from The Observer?
@Dave Doyle:No he didn’t. The memo doesn’t say that. If you read the original article you might understand it. The article does try to draw that conclusion, but like yourself it has an anti Irish agenda.Enough of your David Doyle lies and spin.
@Orla Smith: Click the link at top of this article. It’s the Guardian newspaper reporting on an Observer story by Cadwalladr. Interesting read.
@CrabaRev:I suggest you read the article.
@CrabaRev:There is nothing ‘anti Irish’ regarding the article.Supposition and conjecture perhaps but not anti Irish!
@CrabaRev: Nothing in the article as published above of the Guardian’s link alludes to what a”Facebook executive thinks”. Both state what Kenny done while President of the EU and Taoiseach of the country.Your “conclusion” that i’m “anti Irish” is another figment of your over active imagination. I am anti FFG and Liebour. That in no way makes me anti Irish.You’re the one on here, as usual, insulting and name calling anyone who dares question your FG spinning. Yet for all you claim about the article, you’ve nothing to back it up your aspersions
@Charles Alexander: I did read the article. It’s not per se anti Irish, but it is an attempt to blacken Ireland’s reputation by suggesting that the government are compromised by the large amount of US FDI.
@Dave Doyle:Levine apparently wrote  “The prime minister committed to using their EU presidency to achieve a positive outcome on the directive.”That doesn’t say for whom the outcome will be positive. Ms Levine is making the assumption that it would be positive for Facebook. That is an assumption on her behalf. Nothing more.Again Dave I have no links to any political party, hence I am not putting any Fine Gael spin on my posts.Also the use of “FFG” and “Liebour” just shows you have a childish and immature approach to Irish politics. If you want to be taken serious at least try to write like an adult.
@CrabaRev: It’s not per se anti-irish?  but only 30 mins ago you said it has an anti-irish agenda.which is it ?make you mind up ?I read the article, please point out to me this anti-irish agenda in the article?
@Ian Kavanagh: The two are not mutually exclusive. I explained it in a post further down A reply to @wattsed56: if you are interested.
as I requested … can you please point to out the anti-irish agenda in the article. the two cannot be mutually exclusive – it’s either anti-irish or not. which is it ?
@Orla Smith:The Observer is effectively the Sunday edition of The Guardian and part of The Guardian Media Group.
@CrabaRev: Ms Levine either wrote it, or she didn’t. Where’s the link so people can judge for themselves.I rather  have an apparent childish attitude to Irish politics than the a***licking one you have for the FG minority government.
@CrabaRev: Guardian is no longer left-wing.
@Dave Doyle: You will have to contact the authors of the Observer piece if you want a link to the memo. It is a sealed court document, so you probably will have difficult getting it.The quote from my earlier post is from the Observer article. Since I also have not seen the memo, I cannot verify whether the quote is correct or not. Hence my use of the word “apparently.”
@Daniel J. Somers: I will politely disagree with that viewpoint.
@Dave Doyle:“I rather have an apparent childish attitude to Irish politics than the a***licking one you have for the FG minority government.”I rest my case.
@CrabaRev: I read the Guardian’s link, if accurate, Kenny was in fact lobbying on behalf of Facebook. The issue is about data protection. We already know FG’s attitude to private and personal data.
@Dave Doyle: what’s FG’s opinion on private and personal data?? If the are in breach, report them to the data protection commissioner.
@CrabaRev: And they are! Tech runs Dublin like Luciano and Lansky ran Havana!!
@Unitedpeople: Only proves the pull of this government here, gangsters can get away with anything here…
Envelopes ….
@Willy:More accusations of Fine Gael cronyism. They’re incapable of change.#oustthebackslappers
@Willy: If, and it’s a big if, Kenny was lobbying in Facebook’s favour on Data Regulation. Why would he be doing it? Its pretty obvious it would be to  protect Irish jobs.You can argue whether or not that would be a good judgement call. But the comment of “Envelopes …” is just vacuous and childish.
@CrabaRev: so is your cultish adherence to jobs at an price.
@Frankie Mangan: It appears you have difficult comprehending a fairly straight forward post. Please point out to me where I advocated “jobs at an [sic] price.”
@CrabaRev: spin unit must be down staff, you seem to be the only one commenting on any negative FG comments
@Milk The Drones: incapable . Of change. Of which there is no proof . Based on your assessment. Yawn
@Nowa Huta:  Sunday with an unexpected snowfall.  I guess he was the only one able to get online in a hurry.
@Willy: Yes brown ones are particularly nice.
@Derek Poutch: what’s in for me? culture in the Dáil.
@Willy: Empty  or Full
@CrabaRev: Your continued ability to blindly defend government corruption never ceases to amaze me…
@Sarah: I am not defending corruption of any type. I am just pointing out that people are blindly shouting corruption without any analysis of the actual story.I am amazed by the intellectual shallowness of the readers of the Journal.
@CrabaRev: How do you know he didn’t get a payment from Facebook it is not childish or vacuous. Serious questions need to be answered and sorry i don’t have much faith in this compromised country and it’s political system.
@Emmet Noonan: There is zero evidence to support that assertion. The Observer article is not making that assertion. Reasonable people don’t go around making completely fabricated allegations about people.
If true it’s shocking. We’re used to stumbling from one scandal to another here but this takes the absolute biscuit. The days of backhanders and brown envelopes continue, when will we as citizens stand up and say enough is enough We have a relationship with politicians that’s akin to a domestic violence relationship, we’re so abused by politicians that we’re numb to it.
@Rachel O’ Meara: The people are suffering from StockholmSyndrome.
@Rachel O’ Meara: Why on earth would it be shocking?, what does it take for fools in this country to not be shocked but expect corruption at all levels of governance, its what people vote for ever election with FF/FG and they are so thick they cannot even realise it….we deserve everything we get and much much more.
@Peter Hughes: spot on peter.We keep returning them to office then feign shock when they look after big business ahead of the needs of the people of Ireland.People suggesting brown envelopes are totally missing the point. This is not about payments to individuals it is about a failed extreme capatilist ideology that suggests a rising tide lifts all boats. In reality all the ff/fg “promote big business at all costs” policy has done is increase the gap between rich and poor and clean out the middle classes.
That’s the FG way!!!
All part of a larger problem.Media/Journalists, crawling to Politicians to become advisors is one thing butPoliticians, crawling to big corporates/institutions to become board members etc..A large percentage of both selling out the public they claim to represent.The highest level of Poacher turn gamekeeper, not just bringing their skills and experience but hired to manipulate systems in place to protect society.Political history is littered with such abuses. They cost dearly.A 5 year ban required on any new employment where conflict of  interest is evident to assist in dissuading individuals to the point that their knowledge is irrelevant.
@Shayne O’Donoghue: Like former Deputy PM Nick Clegg. They’re all at it.
Some of us have been saying for many years that FG and Facebook, the company, are in each other’s pockets and favour – one looks after the other in a symbiotic relationship (like FG and Denis O’Brien also).The UK Sunday Times previously ran a huge front page story exposing connections between Enda’s own local cumman and the awarding of Irish Water contracts. This too was censored from Irish media, print and radio, at the time.https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/kennys-ally-lets-out-office-to-irish-water-ch0xlllwz7l
And people are surprised why exactly!!!.This sleveen little hoor has royally shafted this country and like his predecessor’s  he will get away with it.I say fair play to him because he managed to get away with it thanks to the people that voted for them.
@tommytukamomo: A wonderfully intelligent comment as always Tommy. If this is the type of analysis we get from Sinn Fein members, you’ll excuse me If I don’t take your party in any way seriously.
@CrabaRev: I am no member of SF but I can assure you 100% that Tommy is spot on.
@tommytukamomo: Another stunning example of your intellect Tommy. Well done.
@CrabaRev: your pathetic attempts to get a rise out of the adults isn’t working.
@tommytukamomo:“fog off you utter muppet.”, “This sleveen little hoor has royally shafted this country”You think you are an adult. That is  hilarious Tommy.
@tommytukamomo: Are you going to set your staffi on me?
@CrabaRev: try as hard as you want ,I’ll  just keep reporting you .Then fg will be  minus 1 troll.
@tommytukamomo: And petty as well. You have so many positive attributes. Talk soon.
@CrabaRev: reported again , you just can’t resist can you.
@tommytukamomo: Tommy, Please stop harassing me.
@CrabaRev: You Are The one doing the harassing and trolling.You’re track record and postings will vouch for that.
@CrabaRev: You are better backing down at this rate, The Journal does have a hide commenter limit.
@tommytukamomo: Here here
Fine Gael sold out the entire EU and all of it’s citizens for a few pieces of silver.
They were talking about this on the BBC this morning. This sort of stuff strikes at the very credibility of this country.. It’s very embarrassing that it’s come out that Ireland was prepared to use its Presidency of the EU to act in the interest of a company that doesn’t want or wants to seriously restrict regulation of the internet. This is a scandal given what facebooks objectives are.
Another” pillar of society ” exposed to be a deceitful liar.
Fine Gael, incompetence AND corruption… and still people continue to support them.
@John O’Hara: And will. Approximately 30% In fact, always and forever no matter what they do…
Enda the clown prince of Fine Gael, useless.
@Lobert Rester: Sounds like something FF would do (for a few quid though)
@Daniel J. Somers: And I am not defending Enda the Turnip or FG either.
@Lobert Rester: A snake in the grass more likely.It’s easy to imagine how much he aided he who must not be named also.
@Billy McNamara: Do you mean Dennis o’ Brien ?
@Thomas Roche: Lord Voldemort
@Lobert Rester: We can call him a “clown” all we like but that doesn’t change the fact that a not even remotely qualified schoolteacher who inherited daddy’s seat rose to the most powerful position in the country, walked away with a 5K a week pension with very favourable taxation and somehow hasn’t gone down as one of the most ineffective and corrupt leader’s we’ve had in living memory.Who literally sold out his own country and crippled it for generations to come at the behest of the EU and foreign interest groups, went back on his own policies, lied to the electorate (USC, property taxes anyone?) and whose legacy is record levels of homelessness, bad debt, a healthcare crisis, population growth that is now below replacement levels and a brain drain of the educated middle classes lost to emigration….No other country outside of the US or African dictatorships can one person do so much damage and walk away with not only no repercussions and a bagful of taxpayer money for their trouble but with the reputation intact, protected by our joke of a media. If he’s clown the what the hell are the rest of us?
@Sarah: I take issue with you on your comment. I do think believe Kenny was / is corrupt. I can’t argue about anything else you said.
@Ian Kavanagh: Self interest is always corrupting. Being corrupt doesn’t necessarily mean you need to engage in illegal activities. Cronyism is a prime example.
@Ian Kavanagh: @Sarah We are talking here about “Legal Corruption” at which Ireland surely tops the world table. Also Kenny protected hoards of white collar criminals which makes him corrupt – full stop.
EU won’t like this.
@Dan Jacobson: yes they will. Tax harminisation happening next year anyway. They’ll all move to the eu mainland soon.
Disgraceful stuff. Also heard today the gov were thinking of setting up some committee. Didn’t hear the full story but one of the main directives was that it should be made up of former politicians. I think a FF guy suggested it and then  harris made a statement saying it was a good idea! Talk about looking after themselves. You couldn’t make this stuff up!
If Ireland needed an enema, Dáil Éireann is where they’d stick the tube.
“Really hope your journalists in Ireland pay attention to this” … they’re on the government’s payroll and write fluff and positive pieces for them
Aaaagh. Stop bringing the dipsh**ts name back into the spotlight. Took long enough to get rid of him.
FG = Facebook goons
More evidence of the utter corruption FG are engaged in.
LOL @ The Journal,  Cracking picture of a dodgy looking Kenny, to kickstart the proceedings,he reminds me of Boycie in Only fools and horses when he is trying to sell you a car
@Pixie McMullen:It’s designed to influence the weak minded.  They have difficulty comprehending the nuances of the article and associated references. A picture of Kenny looking shifty gets their agenda across to them much more succinctly.
@CrabaRev: yeah, cool story bro…
@CrabaRev: Jesus the overtime must be good in the Strategic Comms unit. Go home and enjoy your Sunday ye creep.
@Bingobango:What rock did your crawl out from under?I have no links whatsoever to Fine Gael or any political party.I find it fascinating that there are so may complete and utter idiots on this site who’s default position is “Uggh! Fine Gael / Fianna Fáil bad” If you read the article and the Observer piece you’ll find it has a very specific agenda. And it really has little with Kenny. and a lot to do with undermining Ireland’s FDII will assume from your comment that you don’t have the intellectual capacity to understand that. There must be a certain comfort in being so thick that complex events are of no concern to you.
@CrabaRev: So this is what you perceive as a conspiracy on FDI, by whom and for what purpose?By Cadwalladr of all people?
@wattsed56:There is no conspiracy. As I mentioned before, the Observer / Guardian is the most left-wing commercial news organisation in the English speaking world. They have a vested interest in large multi national corporations, such as Facebook being restricted in the way they do business and how they pay taxes. In this instance, they are trying to say that Ireland is compromised by its large reliance in US FDI, and that it give the likes of Facebook disproportionate political power.They are attacking our FDI in an attempt to attack Facebook. It’s not rocket science.
@CrabaRev: what rock did you crawl out from other…idiots …  I see you your double standards are evident again. you attack others for immaturity and then proceed to act like a little school yard bully,
@Ian Kavanagh: When people call me “creep”, I generally treat them with distain.
@CrabaRev: again I’m only pointing your your level of immaturity when you also respond in such fashion. By all means call me names if it’s makes you feel better. I won’t go down that particular road myself.
@Ian Kavanagh: Where did I call you names?
@CrabaRev: That’s your conclusion, not mine. Guess we’ll find out in the next few days from the leadership team (sic)
@Ian Kavanagh: The reply to your other question is contained in a post earlier in this thread.
@wattsed56:Fair enough.I am afraid I don’t understand your “leadership team” reference. “(sic)” usually indicated it is a reference to a quote. I am pretty sure I didn’t make any reference to any “leadership team.”
@CrabaRev: you didn’t.  but you are prone to it when others don’t align to your way of thinking – thats all i was referring  too. Please practice what you preach.Goodnight sir.
@Ian Kavanagh: Thanks Ian. and a goodnight to you also.
Hello is that Fine Gael Head Office. I have a plan to create some jobs but I need a wagon load of cash and a special deal on tax.No bother we’ll get moving on that and we can chat about the other arrangements in the middle of the Phoenix Park at 5am in Sunday morning.See you then.
One of the most corrupt little countries on earth. It seems all our politicians are cut from the same cloth. Corruption & this country run hand in hand & its mainly down to our politicians doing favours for their cronies
Why are we surprised by these revelations? Doesn’t this happen worldwide by many politicians including Ming?
@Front Line (Retd): Ming has done nothing wrong, he has been an excellent representative for the people of rural Ireland.If you are not man or woman enough to use your own name then no one gives a flying fcku what you think.
@Front Line (Retd): Didn`t you run in the local elections in Letterkenny in 2014 for labour and didn`t make it ?
@Pixie McMullen: Labour represented very few of their voters in 2011. no surprise they are the dodo of the Dail.
If we only knew  what was going behind our backs
I’ve never voted FF/FG in 20 years. Imagine how I feel
@Zossima: I feel you pain…
Pure and utter cream cracker!!
@John Murray: The inventor of many a fiction story.
Senior politician lobbies on our behalf for a huge multinational investment… is that not what they are meant to do ?
@John Kelly: No. They are supposed to make legislation that benefits the people of Ireland. Not banks, not Vulture funds, not Corporations.
@John Kelly: He didn’t lobby on our behalf, he lobbied on behalf of Facebook. Essentially a representative of a private company while Taoiseach of this country.
@John Kelly: Read the article. Nothing to do with investment, that’s corporation tax. It’s about protecting, or rather not protecting personal data. Kenny wouldn’t have been involved, others in the food chain.
@John Kelly: On who’s behalf???
The Observer? I think I’ll wait and see how this develops before I comment on Enda Kenny.
@James Wallace: If RTE play it down or do their usual, don’t report anything that exposes FG, it won’t develop at all.
@James Wallace: Ah! A sane and educated person. We are a rarity on this thread.
@Unitedpeople: expose what ?
Is that corruption ?
@Marg FitzGerald: no it’s not Mary..A politician working in the national interest.. it’s a cheap Brexit shot by the observer.. non story .. think of all the promises the UK government made to nissan…. no difference …
@John Kelly: Trying your best there John, but it is corruption .. Sorry about that… Dry your eyes mate
Well Well, Does Ming’s opinion count for much??
@John Mc Donagh: Over an exposed repeated fiction maker? Quite possibly.
Shock horror luke Ming Flanagan lobbies on behalf of turd cutters direct to European parliament… thousands of jobs at stake
@John Kelly: You’ve a low opinion of the rural community who elected him, why?
@wattsed56: in never said that anywhre … I mispelt … I meant turf cutters BTW…. luke will rightly lobby on behalf of the people who elect him so what’s wrong with another politician lobbying Facebook on behalf of the people that elected him or in the national interest.. it’s a stupid non story being stirred up by the obverver..
@John Kelly: he lobbied on behalf of Facebook. Are you suggesting that Facebook had a part in electing him?how many people from Mayo lobbied him in relation to this?
@Ian Kavanagh: and again what is wrong here…that’s what politicians do to bring in foreign direct investment … observer spinning shite … they are jealous that’s all   … has he broken any law … all politicians will lobby on behalf of their constituents.. how bad .. do we sit back and let other countries take the jobs or investment… we fight for them within the rules of the land we live in …
@John Kelly: did I say it was wrong ?As you know so much about this story, educate me on how this was in the national interest ?
@Ian Kavanagh: jobs jobs jobs jobs jobs and more jobs
@Ian Kavanagh: educate me on why it’s in the national interest NOT to protect personal data ? I’m truly interested in how that is in the natural interest, that is after all what Enda  Kenny lobbied for.
@Ian Kavanagh: 0% related to jobs, jobs, jobs. corporation tax takes care of that.
Corrupt f#ckers the lot of them. Gangsters
@John Smith: what is corrupt here …?
No surprise here, Kenny knows what side his bread is buttered on and like Bertie he will take full advantage of his position to further his own agenda.
The pic of Enda Kenny says it all.   A real Fr Ted look
the question is , was there brown envelopes involved
I would take this story with a huge pinch of salt. I am very loathed to give credence to any reports on Ireland coming from the UK or US media. Just because someone says so doesn’t mean it’s true. They will have to provide hard evidence to prove the veracity of their claim. Until then I would suggest that people don’t jump to conclusions.
Do the math:1 Politician + 1 politician = 2 pieces of shite.
FB employ 4000 people here. Lobbying government should hardly be surprising. Both the current and previous data commisioners have said Kenny or FG never tried to influence data laws or lobby on FB’s behalf. So it is fake malicious news.
Nothing new here. Enda Kenny was and is a puppet of the body corporate. So is his Fine Gael party and it’s new “leader” Varadkar and Michael Martin and Fine Fáil (CETA / ISDS) and the Labour Party. We have long since moved from Democracy to Corpocracy.See my TED Talk below – Ireland:- Democracy or Corpocracy?https://youtu.be/dpjWhZk0mvw
That trash kenny is poison. Sorry:I meant to say disgusting,
FREDDIE KRUGER
Hitler will never be dead as long as he’s around
Freddie K
If it was the Irish Farmers Association or our fishermen or the GAA or any other Irish native industry would it be incumbent upon the taoiseach to represent their views at EU level and even try to negotiate something more favourable to them….  so just because it is Facebook with their headquarters in Ireland everyone is in a tizzy….  slow down.Would not the UK government support their car industry or the French support Airbus, the Spanish their fishing trawlers – there is a lot of diplomatic language in the article (the observer quotes) such as a “favourable outcome” without saying exactly what it was, sort of cloak and dagger stuff and let’s be clear Facebook had special relationship with loads of politicians…..    it is interesting that Nick Clegg was involved when deputy prime minister of the UK and now works for Facebook and the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said he would “figure out how to get more involved”Seems there was and is a lot of lobbying and politicians leaving companies with the impression that they are “on their side” which is an essential element of placation which goes on everywhere – not saying that it is right but if just one country plays the game then everyone must leave a good cooperative impression or loose the business to another state.This works even at local level when politicians are approached to make representations on constituents behalf, and appear to get things done that would have happened anyway, they get the vote next time around…    so what is wrong with creating the impression you are on the side of one of the larger employers in the country?  At least he is not working for facebook, unlike others and there is a hint that this is trying to shift any scandal from George Osborne…    of course I could be wrong…. GDPR was a pain for many companies and some have not applied and block content to the EU as a result… I am not saying the system is right, but it is the system under which we operate so why are we surprised?(sourcehttps://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/mar/02/facebook-global-lobbying-campaign-against-data-privacy-laws-investment)The then chancellor used the meeting with Sandberg to ask Facebook to invest in the government’s Tech City venture, the memo claims, and Sandberg said she would “review” any proposal. In exchange, she asked him to become “even more active and vocal in the European Data Directive debate and really help shape the proposals”. The memo claims Osborne asked for a detailed briefing and said he would “figure out how to get more involved”.
@Niall Ó Cofaigh: very well said … a load of observer horseshite… politicians doing their job.. all parties politicians lobby on our behalf … even Luke Ming Flanagan…
@Niall Ó Cofaigh: Kenny had already sold farmers and fishermen out.
@Seamus Maye: And property and water…
freddie
Why would anyone care what Enda Kenny does now?
@P.J. Nolan: The two biggest celebrities in the world seem to care :)
It’s surprising how many people don’t know that Enda Kenny is a 10 handicap polo player, the only player in Ireland to ever reach that level.He could easily have played professional polo if he hadn’t opted to serve his country out of the goodness of his heart.
@Michael Allen: what’s a Fine Gael ‘click’?
@Michael Allen:Do you think Gerry Adams wouldn’t have done the same given half a chance?
@Michael Allen: ah Micky, you don’t click it at all, do you?
@P.J. Nolan:What did he ever do in Govnt?
@P.J. Nolan: You obviously care enough…to; 1. Click on + read the Item, and 2. Write a comment about dear Enda…
@P.J. Nolan: He has put his name or signed to this charity and has raised a lot of money among his wealthy friends
Fair play and well done for a good cause.
@Joe Johnson: idiot
@Joe Johnson: sickening but shows FG for what they are. Toadies.
@Keith:https://www.rt.com/uk/433773-prince-charles-pedophile-bishop/Good causes????
It turns out no one really cares…..
@Brian Byrne: I’d like to think some people care about children with HIV and AIDS…
@Paul Moran: absolutely but I’m talking about Enda as he grabbed the headline
@Brian Byrne: well you obviously cared enough to comment
@Brian Byrne: you seem to care only about a  bottle of beer in front of you. What a wonderful contrabution to mankind!
What ever happened to Fine Gael’s Five Point Plan?http://www.thejournal.ie/fine-gael-five-point-plan-1256969-Jan2014/
@Irish Bob: fully implemented, that’s why ireland is booming again, all thanks to Enda the great :)
@Billy the great: the only thing booming is the number of people in hallways waiting on beds
@Michael Allen: I pity the hate filled nobodies like you, all that anger eating away at you :)
@Billy the great: Crumbling health service, homelessness, housing crisis, scandal after scandal.  The party F.F. That facilitated the gangsterism of the banks and developers now keep in power a thatcherite party of paracites. If you call that an economic boom, you are sadly mistaken
@Billy the great:Billy the great… what?Certainly not troll. Fairly weak at that.answers in the comment section
Jeeze, it was for a charitable cause. Give over. His appearance hasn’t harmed anyone but if it helped raise money for this cause fair play.
@wattsed: Oh that bit is irrelevant, it is all about who can we speak ill of..I will probably be next.
@mary conneely: What a bunch of begrudgers Mary. Delighted mind you they don’t represent Irish society at large.
@mary conneely: You can’t always judge a book by the cover Mary. A lot of people use charities for their own good.
What a plonker.
@Decko Kelly: Yea support a children’s HIV charity- i mean how dare he
@Billy the great: It doesn’t matter what Enda does, he’s a plonker.
@Billy the great: yes and he’s doing it for free I bet
@Michael Allen: ah, no, Micky. They actually don’t have citizens beyant.
Enda Kenny’s Broken Promiseshttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=523FLk2126g
Completely out of touch Enda Kenny speaking gibberish on RTE News thinks the minimum wage is €35,000https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=je0gwdNWNSg
He wasn’t too worried about the health and mental wellbeing of the young people he was responsible for as Taoiseach. But photo opportunities with “royals” are not to be missed are they?
Textbook wide eyed camera hogger!
Not so much a case of it being a charity he supports for humanitarian purposes,but a charity he supports because it was set up by the type of people he wants to ingratiate himself with
Is this really Enda Kenny’s idea of how to ‘man up’?http://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/gene-kerrigan/is-this-really-enda-kennys-idea-of-how-to-man-up-30852845.html
@Irish Bob: You are not obsessed at all :D
NOT ONE CENT MORE .. is all I remember him saying
Enda Master Debaterhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qZbXDbV2XQ0#t=11
He looks fierce confused!
Been awhile since I heard anything about Edna.
Nice little earner for enda
I wonder how exactly he supports it. Is it like how Bono & Bob Geldof support charities.
@Slim Shady: Or the Irish tax system?
The journal needs to take a serious look at itself plenty print for a silly season pro Fine Gael story its stock and trade. No space to comment on the Ruth Morrisseys story on the callous treatment of her cervical cancer diagnosis by the Fine Gael Government despite its spin of lovey dovey treatment of the victims of cervical cancer victims. The Leo is love sick Irish journalists turn a blind eye
Some people on here need to get a life, leave the man alone. He took this country back form the edge of a cliff
@Conchúr: He made an economic collapse look good by the time he was finished… Imposed draconian austerity measures to repay for the gangsterism of the banks and developers, went from one scandal into another.  His legacy, crumbling health service,homelessness, housing crisis, stumbled from one scandal into another.  Do you not ironic.. The party F.F. That brought this country to it’s knees now keep in power Kenny,s thatcherite party.
Kenny. The toddle along” fool
Omg shoot me
Nice Jockey on the left . Riding Anyone ?
An article about a photograph without the photograph in question. Strange.
Turns out I care less. Why even post this article ?
@Ian McGrath: Bow down to your leaders
the royal jester must have been out sick yesterday
I’m appalled at the politics in this country.
@2thFairy: your more than welcome to leave
@Tom Ryan: You’re!!
@Tom Ryan: *You’re.  Stupid reply though anyway, even if it was written properly
@Tom Ryan: strange response. Why should I leave? Are you saying I can’t be critical about politics in my own country.
@RJ.Fallon: thanks for the correction
@2thFairy: Be careful now ,if tom Ryan has his way ,we will all be living in exile.
Pot/Kettle, what a plonker. He should be concerned about how his beloved Blueshirts are pandering to investment corporations and neglecting the real issues affecting the  people of Ireland today. They don’t care about the homeless and the ill people queueing on trolleys to get hospital beds. They won’t give us a referendum on the ownership of our water despite the clear message given to them by the people. They stood by two Ministers for Justice despite the recent Garda scandals. Broken promises galore. I could go on….
@2thFairy: ___ Even the Healy-Raes are better than what’s on offer in Westminster.
@Ted Murray: Ahhhhhh,now that’s food for thought!
@2thFairy: appalled? Ireland is getting better now and it’s so pity you wouldn’t even admit this
@2thFairy: god, if you’re appalled at the politics in this country i wonder what you think about countries such as Afghanistan.
@Frank Cauldhame: So you’ll vote left wing, won’t you Frank? You’d hardly vote for them or FF and whinge that they do their thing?
@2thFairy: I’m appalled by the commentators.
@2thFairy: Anyone can leave, including you.
@2thFairy: Enda Kenny, the original remote control for the remote control.
@Tom Ryan: He’s more than entitled to air his opinion. We live in a democratic country.
@Tom Ryan: That’s the answer to the problem is it Tom. Grow up.
This a brilliant summing up of Enda`s award from Luke “Ming” Flanagan.Enda Kenny was presented with an award today by the European Movement in Ireland. The award was for “Irish European of the Year”. However the award is nothing more than a self congratulatory slap on the the back.You see the European Movement has an Honorary President. His name is Leo Varadkar. Before Leo got the job Enda held the position. On the board of the European Movement Ireland is Jillian Van Turnhout. Jillian became a senator as result of a Taoiseach’s nomination by Enda Kenny.Of course such an organisation must be funded. Where does it get it’s funding from? €200,000 from the department of the Taoiseach.So basically today we have had to listen to wall to wall coverage of Enda giving an award to himself. Worse still. You had to pay for it.
@Pearse Mc Mullen: That would be less than half of its income: it also has member subscriptions and payment for projects it undertakes for other organizations.I think Ming may be putting too much emphasis on honorary presidents.http://www.europeanmovement.ie/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Annual-Report-2016-FINAL-PDF.pdf
@Pearse Mc Mullen: Well stupid paddy pays for everything…..but why are we surprised by this…..kenny, noonan and the rest that went before them are traitors….but does anyone care….varadkar will be next up in a few years for the same BS award.
@Pearse Mc Mullen: is a European movement going to the toilet in Europe.   Endas legacy hospital waiting lists. Housing lists. Lack of public transport infrastructure. Overpriced utilities. Overpriced insurance.  Etc etc
@Pearse Mc Mullen: what a clown Ming is!
@Pearse Mc Mullen: you nailed it there. How about running for office,you already know where you can do the cuts and save the taxpayer money might even build a few houses with whats saved.
@Pearse Mc Mullen: the words “circle jerk” spring to mind..
@Pearse Mc Mullen: Sums it up…
@Pearse Mc Mullen: Well said,And yet funding cant be found for Ireland to join CERN or the Southern European Consolation programs to encourage high industries here.
Sounds like Enda wants a job in Europe…
@Emlyn Farrell: Yeah thats his Plan
@Emlyn Farrell: and he will get a nice tasty plumb one….that’s the dividend for obeying the EU mafia eurocrats in brussells.
@Emlyn Farrell: Shouldn’t that be “Eu Lapdog of the Year”?.
@Emlyn Farrell: With a very generous pension to look forward to I doubt he’ll bother.
@Emlyn Farrell: Yes the famous pat on the head could be worth a lot to him yet!
@Emlyn Farrell: He licked enough as* while in office to be a cert for a Euro job.
He should be appalled at his own tenure in government.
@Trevor Hayden: indeed…kenny and noonan sold out this republic to the vulture fund globalists and paddy is left to be screwed once again.
@Trevor Hayden: why? Look at the mess Fianna Fail left? Half of them should be jailed for the mess they left!
@BananaRepublic1922: Kenny and Noonan managed through the effective bankruptcy if the country to get it up and running again by landing billions in foreign investment and creating jobs and – unlike Fianna Fail – didn’t blow it the first time people called for payouts. Are people’s memories really that short and selective that they can’t see that? ?
@EChamp: FF called in the TROIKA yes, they are ultimately responsible but FG bowed to every whim Europe asked for. This was taxpayer money that was used to keep the banks afloat and the EU bailout is now still propping up the banks while people are being forced to sleep in cars and tents to appease the banking greed.Countless people have taken their lives due to pressure from the bailed out banks and Kenny never batted an eyelid.He deserves to burn in the fires of hell for putting Europe before his own countrymen and women.
@BananaRepublic1922: Noonan and his “Sure Vultures do a good job” quote still sticks in my mind among his many smarmy answers.
@EChamp: No my memory is not short.I remember Enda ringing a bell with Dinny O’ Br*en .Remember that champ?
@Trevor Hayden: Can you help me comprehend exactly why?
@Daniel Carson: If people who lost their jobs during the 08 crash and had been paying taxes all their working lives, do you not think they deserve a break from the bank that their taxes have helped save?
I’m appalled at Enda’s lump sum on retirement and annual pension.
Kenny is a national embarassment. The welfare of Ireland is not the top priority to the UK gov. Also I think it’s very telling these guys (kenny, cowan and bertie) would probably jump at a job in the EU but the EU people don’t want them because the fact is they know they bankrupt their own country. The Irish gombeens who vote them in think they’re good enough to run Ireland but the EU people know the facts.
@Adrian: Not sure if you’ve ever ready the news. First of all Ireland was never bankrupt. Now if it was the economic downturn you were referring to the economic downturn of 2008, that was caused by the banks and insufficient regulations overseen by Cowen and Ahern. Why exactly have you included Kenny in your comment?
Didn’t mean to say the same thing twice^^ but you get my message
@Daniel Carson: Ahern/Cowan deserve to be ostracised, but if you want to get technical the economic downturn was caused by a crash in the global financial markets.  I have not doubt that there would have been little difference in the impact on Ireland had Fine Gael been in power. In fact, it appears they are just continuing the boom/bust cycle.
@Daniel Carson: Because Kenny underwrote commercial debts with sovereign credit and then watched as the ECB/EU made Ireland pay 42% of the cost of keeping the Euro afloat when it should have been allowed to fail also.
Still waiting for Enda’s ‘end of cronism’. That and the referendum to protect our water supply from FGs cronies.
He should shut his face ,its nothing to do with him.he was a complete clown trying to run his own country .
@RJ.Fallon: it may not have anything to do with him but he is certainly entitled to have an opinion and that’s all it is and that’s good for democracy unlike dictating for someone to shut there face.
@RJ.Fallon: He’s not wrong, though. And the UK Opposition is equally useless.
@Tom Ryan: Except in this case he is making a public statement, so ,as you are saying ,we are BOTH entitled to our opinions.
@RJ.Fallon: He is right though, perhaps put aside your prejudices here. This will really upset some of the British folks criticising the EU and Irish government for their stance who seem to think Kenny was somewhat on their side.
@RJ.Fallon: whether he makes a statement in public or private he is still entitled to have and to make the statement and if you think not maybe you should go and live in north Korea.
@RJ.Fallon: it has everything to do with us. Our economy could be very adversely affected . No point in saying he should “shut his face”:  they are not listening, they don’t care,  they cant/won’t do anything.
@Tom Ryan: Ok, but if am British, could I then tell him to mind his own business?
@Tom Ryan: as am I.
@RJ.Fallon: If you’re British on an Irish news forum you might show more decorum. You are entitled to your opinion, but using Daily Express insults, such as, “Shut your mouth!”, just isn’t classy and IF you were British, you’d simply be showing them in a poor light!
@RJ.Fallon: don’t be so foolish brexit is as much an Irish problem and Ireland needs to stand up and protect it’s own interest looking at your picture I’d never have taken you for someone that’s sounds so stupid.
@RJ.Fallon: Do you have an opinion on brexit or is it all just pointless invective?
@Tom Ryan: Actually,I am neither  foolish nor stupid,but I am at an age when it takes less and less to make me angry. And I am very seldom so bitter about things that I will let fly like this. Old age and tolerance are not compatible.
@RJ.Fallon: Maybe you should shut your own face, idiot.
UCD or the Royal College of Surgeons or whoever need to petition for all TD’s bodies, especially Ministers, to be donated to science; as there has to be groundbreaking revelations around a shameless, ignorant, and inept part of the brain that has not been fully explored. Take your pension and run for the hills Kenny, ya watermelon, don’t set us up to slate you
We are still waiting for your democratic revolution ,enda .not much has changed another boom another bust ,same old same old .
‘The government is driven by internal descent’!Well, yes.
Mr West Brit himself opens his beak. He’s no nationalist as he demonstrated countless times when not only accepted a deeply immoral bailout but accepted the blame on behalf of Irish people. He now demonstrates nothing but resentment for a country that wants to self-determine. People like Enda Kenny are in favour or the EU because they themselves do not warm to responsibility and are cynical about politics in general – he likes his money for nothing and his drinks for free.
@Walt Gumball: Exactly, so if the border issue goes belly up, it’ll be due to the EU recommendations. This is turning into an anti Brit campaign more than anything, criticize negotiations = OK, criticize a democracy = not good. Careful Varadkar, Coveney and indeed Barnier – May is not in a position of strength in UK politics. You need to understand what she can give as well as what you would like. Push too far and put her in a corner and it’ll all go pear shaped. You want Johnson or Davis as UK pm, keep pushing May till she topples over.
@Walt Gumball: Yeah, throw in a good dose of racism, colonial entitlement, and historical ignorance and you’ve got England down. So brave and courageous of you after centuries of oppression upon countless nations to throw off the shackles of the EU and still not take a gee hair’s worth of ‘responsibility’ for your country toxic legacy. But the Royal wedding was nice, wasn’t it?
Commenters on here saying that irish politicians should mind their own business and shut up regarding brexit are echoing the opinions of Unionists and British nationalists who really hate or have no interest in Ireland. If there is a hard border, make no mistake the troubles will be back again and probably with renewed support in the Republic. Irish people who support brexit don’t ever spare a thought for what will happen to the north if it is not handled with utmost care.
@Alan Carmody: Plus, we’re all Europeans and we ought to care about the future of the EU and Europe.
@Brendan O’Brien: Europe will be grand. Its looking like one of the last bastions of sanity in an increasingly crazy world. TBH I’m more worried about the North than Europe.
@Alan Carmody: It won’t be grand if we’re complacent about it being grand. It’s facing a lot of challenges.
@Escaped from Justins Face: You may want to be ruled by China and Russia, but I don’t.
@Brendan O’Brien: I’m pro europe but I’m pro what’s 50 miles down the road even more. Don’t pay attention to the above troll by the way with his oh so topical and hilarious name. How he managed to breakaway from 4 chan and hentai for the time it took to create a twitter handle I’ll never know.
@Escaped from Justins Face: Explain why Ireland should leave the EU? How is it going to be better for us?
@Alan Carmody: What if, what if…
Kenny the biggest Euro a kisser ever born. He sold his country out for the benefit of his Euro pals & a cushy number with Merkel in Europe
I’m appalled at that picture of Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum.  Kenny couldn’ look any more like Doogle McGuire if he tried.  And then there’s  Varadker trying to look like his usual I am too cool for school self.  Both are pathetic yes men.
The government is driven by internal descent?????  Surely dissent!
Best boy in the class,he gave them everything they wanted and they kept taking.kenny is a clown.
In Britain??? What about your own people???
I am appalled how many people have to emigrate from Ireland to find work. I am appalled at how we still rely on Britain so much after 100 years of so called independence. I am appalled that those in Dail Eireann are on the same salaries as politicans in Britain where the population is 70 million.
How did this crowd of idiots become a government ? If this is democracy, U.K. citizens deserve what is coming to them in the next few years. Irish politics and democracy ain’t so bad compared to the shambles that the U.K. seems to be becoming now.
Thr ROI has to change if it wants a peaceful United Ireland, IMO.The ROI has to:-Change the constitution to enable a secular State-Decentralise Government by establishing 4 strong provinces like the Canadian model-Allocate reponsibility for education, health & welfare to the provinces-Enable the provinceds to collect tax-redistribute the VAT pro rata to the Provinces-Abolish the Co Councils-Exclude Churches from public primary & secondary education-Religious  education should be privately fundedAs such, this would allay most of the fears held by the Unionists about having fair and equitable treatment in a United Ireland. The Catholic Church has had untoward influenceon the ROI since 1922 and it is about time to debunk it given its horrible track record in te 20th Century.We need a modern secular Ireland, not a continuation of Medieval sectarian conflict, so that that we are not seen by others as silly apologists for an obsolete Holy Roman Empire.
Simple fix social welfare easy money payments, we should have by now been been tighter than the Swiss for world banking and an expanded ifsc, to attract everyone, manufacturing in the rural areas needs grants or reduced min wage, Ireland needs a tidy up as a holiday destination , oh and action not words
Im appalled by how Ireland is now let’s fix it !!! As if we’re so bloody slick
@Gaz Barclay Dunnes: What about the country would you change?
@Daniel Carson: I’ve not got all night
Should the picture not say “ two dicks no balls “
And Kenny I am disgusted with the corruption in the Politics,Banking system which screwed us all and as for the Policing of our state ,when the Gardai are doing down one of their own ,what chance have the little people.
What a stupid stunt!
Ireland are the EU stooges – why else would Kenny get that job. We need to get a vote on our continued existence as EU puppets.
Is April 1st today ?
@Keith Flood: voted By Enda Kenny
@Keith Flood:No, no! You haven’t read the article.He’s the European Movement of the year.Bowel no doubt.
@Keith Flood: the first annual European Union awards for outstanding achievement in the field of excellence
@Keith Flood: Kenny for European of the year doesn’t say much about Europe, does it?
Is this a Waterford Whispers post?
@Brendan Brennan: I think Viz were first to break this story ;-)
If it was European yes-man of the year, I agree.
Knob of the year more like
@David Huston: a knob is useful for something!!!
Vote Míng for galactic Emperor.
@David Dineen:   it would be a more deserving award!
@David Dineen: I remember him in Galway about 20 years ago running for election for maybe local council not sure and only got 80 voters people were laughing at him. Amazing what he has achieved with persistence.
@Jonathan Power: On the advice of a friend I started following his European escapades. And fair dues, he’s well on top of it.
@Jonathan Power: Unlikely. He’s been in the Dail since 1975…
@George Salter: think Jonathan was talking about Ming…Not Enda.
@Mick Murphy: yes exactly Mick I used to see Ming around Galway all the time. He played snooker a lot in Edlinton St.
Ming? His attendance record at the European Parliament is shocking.
This has to be a joke right?
@Michael Allen: Who would you suggest should run it
@Billy Grennan: It doesn’t matter who is suggested because they can’t get a look in as long as FFG can have a coalition that isn’t and claim a mandate they haven’t, while hobbling the elected opposition.
A lean year for outstanding Europeans
@Seriously: Nigel Farage?
@Seriously: Lean lean lean…..
He’s not even Castlebar Man of The Year
@Keith:Outstanding in his field is our Enda.Scarecrow of the year.
Jesus wept
and drumm will get honest banker of the year
Is he the only nominee??
FFS
@cars: No FGS (Fine Gael sake)
Waterford Whispers?
Sweet Baby Beeejeeebus tell me this isn’t true.
What a joke!
So the European Movement Ireland are giving him an award. So it’s not been voted by other Europeans just a few lads in Ireland lol , they’re probably made up of some ex cronies and party members
A really nice way of saying “you’re not getting that commissioner job”
@Skinnerbot: very funny & probably accurate LOL ! I’d cringe if he gotUp as high as EU Commissioner level, he’d do even more damage to what’s left of our country & our sovereignty …
Tosser of the year would have a nicer ring to it..
Brass neck awards
All playing into a cushy Europe job for Enda. Does sycophancy towards towards the ECB make one a good European??
Wow must have been a short list of nominees if they can pick him
@Terry OHagan: If he was the only one, he still shouldn’t get it.
There’s really no better European then him?
@Sorcha Hendry instagram: @SorchaHendry86: Yes. He was / is pro – E.U. He is entitled to his now personal opinion. As a public representative, he was made Taoseach by our parliament who knew that he was in favour of E.U. principles. So, why not Enda Kenny ?
@Sorcha Hendry instagram: @SorchaHendry86: Oops, sorry. I just saw your question mark.
@Jimmy O’Brien: Really? S pathological liar, incapable of telling the truth or forming a sentence on his own.
Thought Brian Cowen had worked out a deal that he’d receive this every year in recognition of his enthusiasm for beggaring his own people to take EU debt into their backs for generations to come. Great European.
A spokesperson for EMI says Mr Kenny was selected for the award for his work during Ireland’s EU presidency in 2013, getting Ireland through the IMF/ECB/EU bailout programme and helping to lay the groundwork for brexit.I would suggest that Enda’s oversight and implementation of phase one austerity policies went along way toward his nomination, the spineless lacky.
@Super Ted: Sure under his leadership didn’t Ireland not only take on 42% of European banking debt,paid all bondholders despite his pre GE pledges and failed to take the opportunity as party with large mandate after GE to renegotiate Troika deal with debt relief,etc like Prof Mody said FG could have done&Prof Mody called that “a lost opportunity…instead banking debt converted to sovereign debt without any fight…with devastating consequences on ordinary Irish people.
@Nuala Mc Namara: Dead right Nuala and this must never be forgiven or forgotten. Every time a fg or ff leech comes looking for your vote this should be rammed down their throats.
Very low standards.
I bet Dennis O`Brien is gonna make a fortune hiring out the old crowd control barriers to surround the Shelbourne . Stop the hordes getting anywhere near their Absolute Hero,We owe him so much…….
Are you having a bloody laugh???
Seems to me like FG are inventing their own awards and presenting themselves with these awards in order to improve their image.
Is it someone’s last day in the journal & they are taking the p*ss??
@michael murray: maybe someone robbed their phone in the can?
Enda Kenny is neck and neck with Nethanyahu for Statesman of the world too i believe
Is this Waterford whispers? Enda Kenny is an embarrassment!
@David W: and so is leo
Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahah….No really *wipes tears from laughing*
I need to go and have a lie down.
I’m grown up enough to recognise a blue shirt enthusiast…..
Then we wonder why people want to leave Europe & Brexit
And why not,  he oversaw the destruction of a nation,  for his European paymasters !
Orla Ryan just because your stuck in an office in this great heat all day doesn’t mean you can start a fake news story
Will he get another pension for that?wats he at ,havent seen or heard of him lately,small loss
@Damien McGrath: No but he might get another little pat on the head.. sure isnt he a great lad altogether…
The Journal is funny ;-)
Looks like they must have scraped the bottom of the barrel
Jesus wept.. who was on the judging panel?
@Babs McMahon: Trump
Don’t like the man or his party but FairPlay to him. Hadn’t a great hand to deal when he took over in 2011
@Shaun Gallagher: only the recovery plan was already written by Lenihan and the Troika. Everything he did in his own was an absolute clusterf*
LOL
Well, he is down as the president of ‘European Movement Ireland’. Must have been a slow day in the office..
The man can hardly string a sentence together without a script or ear piece etc, An accidental Leader of this country who got voted in due to the shambles FF left the country in.Although it’s funny looking at clips back in the hey day with Inda &FG saying that the FF/PD govt were not spending enough money etc.
Is this a joke.A man who cut the country’s people and it’s services to the bone being given a top European award.The FG/Labour coalition had us on our knees and future generations will continue to pay for generations.The Fianna Fáil govt that were in power previously betrayed the Irish people by agreeing to look after the bond holders .Enda Kenny along with the right wing Labour Party continued the betrayal of the Irish people.Im disgusted at this award being given. What next.Berty and Brian Cowen should get the award too.Gerry Malone Dundalk
Ha ha who did the judge Stevie wonder
Nooooooooo
Of course he is sure wasn’t  he behind the implementation of the Kalergi plan in Ireland good man Enda
Maybe Leo might ask Kenny for a few hints on how to try become even more arrogant & full of himself as Leo already is.gas thing is Leo thinks he’s done great
How about Theresa May?
You couldn’t make this up. Ohhh wait it’s Ireland it’s a daily thing.
Seriously what group of sad people voted him  this?
Sure he’s a great European, didn’t he sell us down the river to bail them out
Pukefest.  Who invented this organization and why. ?
This is madness, this underachieving dope who sold the country out to his EU masters is Man of the Year? Makes you wonder who was in second place?
Seriously what group of sad people voted him this ?
Well done and we’ll deserved.
@Free comment ratings: haha haha ye have a sense of humour I’m dying here
Seriously how sad are the Irish ..
It’s time we leave as well,Doritos
Ffs
Funny how Rumpelstiltskin (M O’Leary) and and at least one Irish Minister this time Passsssschal O’Donouhue gets a yearly invote sorry invite to theBILDERBERG CONFERENCE.I guess the fact that MOL is responsible for the circulation migrant labour non labour/ erosion of borders.And Paschal is the key master to the 12.5% (less mostly) tax avoidance charade guarantees your seat at the Carcass yearly…..
A great decision…you bunch of millenials will never realise how good this man was until you grow up ….
@Ricardo Shillyshally: 90% of commenters are probably older than you in fairness
@Ricardo Shillyshally: Yawn…
@Pearse Mc Mullen: I wish….
Absolute  kn0b r0t
F#*k Off. You have to joking. Is candid camera going to pop out at the Shelbourne
Jesus wept…
Annnnnnnnd…… Jesus wept
What a corrupt little sleazebag. We all partied eh Enda. Says a great deal about the USSEU.
Idiot of the Year
Yer f–kin jokin?
It was his imagery friends who voted for him.
Hope that bastion of incisive and independent reporting is going to interview him on the night.No..Not RTE, that German TV station with the British fella dat did Bertie.Is his prize in a usual FG brown envelope ?
Leave him alone, he’s a legend. He took over a country that was bankrupt and steered it back to prosperity again. He’ll go down in history as one of the best Irish leaders ever.
@John Brennan: Go back to sleep, your raving, next ya will be commenting that mayo will win the all Ireland.
Feck away off with that bullshit, what an ejit
Surely this is the abbreviated title ? The full title being European A*selicker of the year ??
Well Chales J Haughey gets no recognition so I’m not surprised. It’s speak more about the bacons that vote here than anything else
Utter muck….,
Linda Martin & Louis Walsh also honoured for their outstanding contribution to music 1988. Someone get a grip FFS.
Fair play Enda u looked after Europe and forgot where u came from, gombeen
@Michael Mulcahy: What do you mean by that illiterate derp?
Blowing smoke up a hole
Oh Lord I do enjoy a good laugh first thing in the morning.
Someone’s def taking the p…!Must b a slow news day …..!But thanks folks…. you’ve just given me a great laugh…..
Its just a game they are  playing making one another look good,,What they fail to do and say they have lined their own pockets,and made millions on the backs of the people
Nice work boys the predictable indignation of pointless waffling clowns.
I am from E.U. and proud of that.Any E.U. country that doesn’t like the principles of E.U. is free to leave. E.U. is not an empire.The days of the British / Spanish / etc. empires are finished.
Is this a joke? Man of the Year!!!! Don’t make me laugh!!
Bertie must be devastated at missing out.
Is that his reward for agreeing to implement Sharia Law in Ireland.
L
We are not independent yet. Six counties still under British rule. No independence day for me anyway until we are united once More
@colm mc sweeney: The north is not Ireland. They don’t want to be and we shouldn’t force them.
@Andy K: it is Ireland. But you’re absolutely right, the majority don’t want to be part of our country and we shouldn’t force them….not that we could if we tried anyway. The people living in the north have a far greater claim on that land than anyone in the south.
@Andy K: I think you’ll find that The North is Ireland and a hell of a lot of people there declare themselves to be Irish.They mightn’t like the way the banana republic is run at the moment, but they’re still Irish and hold Irish passports.
@Graham: How?
@Elvis King: Ireland was partitioned against the wishes of the people. Any clown that believes we should have an ‘Independence Day’ while our country remains partioned needs their head examined. Grossly insulting suggestion to Irish citizens in the six counties & to the memory of those countless men & women (particularly those from the six counties) who gave their lives for a 32 county Irish Republic. The Easter Rising, as a prime example, simply would not have happened were it not for two Tyrome men – Tom Clarke (the main organiser) and Joe McGarrity (who provided the lions share of the funding for the arms). They didnt fight for a 26 county Ireland. James Connolly spoke passionately against the notion of partition. Those making this dispicable suggestion are spitting on their graves.
@Andy K: Last time I checked out was called Northern IRELAND. Yeah not Ireland at all…
@Andy K: What island do you live on the whole island of Ireland is called IRELAND what school did you go too
@colm mc sweeney: we had a referendum relinquishing the territorial claim to NI. Did you forget?
@Kevin Slater: The same referendum afforded citizens in the six counties the right to be regarded as Irish. Ireland has always had 32 counties. That did not change in 1921 nor in 1998.
January 21st 1600,Charles Blount was named as Lord Deputy of Ireland by Elizabeth 1st. He brought the 9 years war to an end by his indiscriminate scorched earth policy, this involved destroying anything of use to the Irish fighters including food sources and even people resulting in hundreds of thousands of Irish peasants dying from direct targeting and the resulting famine, the Irish Taoiseach were defeated and were exiled leading to the Flight of the Earls.Considering the history it is wholly inappropriate and offensive to celebrate FF’s semi independence on this day.
@Andy K: Were you born stupid or did you have to work on it.
@Dainéil Ó hÍobhair: Idiots out in force today
@Andy K:  not true a lot of people in the north do want to be in united ireland and north can vote to be part of that so not politically acurate
@Elvis King: bit like Palestine Elvis King, your beloved Israel trying to illegally oust the Palestinians from their land…get it now?
@colm mc sweeney: spot on
@colm mc sweeney: Last time we were united was in the UK. I share your desire to reunite the UK :-)
@Joe Johnson: I went to one where people understood the difference between an island and a country/state which shares part of that island with another country/state.
That’s fair point about Patrick’s day. World  famous and a great opportunity for Ireland Inc.But if you’re going to have an Independence Day it should be a public holiday. And is there not a suitable date sometime in the summer?
@Jurgen Remak: I would scrap Patrick’s day for an Independence Day
@Shaun Gallagher: st Patrick’s day is the de facto Irish day ,it has been for 100s of years , no amount of shenanigans by the lefties in the dial will change that
@Shaun Gallagher: We need to become Independent first
Unless we get a day off nobody is going to care.
No independence day before reunification.
@Leadóg: We already live in a grounghog day of FF/FG government.
Isn’t January 21st the most depressing day of the year?
The day the first Dail sat, so it is right back to being about them again. 24th of April would be a better choice.
@Matt F: 1st April might be more appropriate
@Porterkev: Independence day will be celebrated on the day the country is reunited. Not a moment sooner. Only in Ireland would you get halfwits seeking to have an ‘Independence Day’ while we are still not independent.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: I think you’ll find the republic of Ireland is an independent country why do you think there’s so much talk of a hard border?? Q
@Matt F: As the piece says, as does cursory googling, 21st January is also when our Declaration of Independence was issued – hence why that’s the date chosen.
@Paddy: The ‘Republic of Ireland’ is the name of a soccer team. Ireland is the name of this entire land. ‘Ireland’ did not suddenly start in 1921. OUR country was partitioned against the wishes of its people. To then pretend that that partition constitutes ‘Independence’ is utterly hideous.
@Paddy: The real Irish live in the occupied 6Co’s and overseas unlike brain washed fools living  in 26Co’ who stupidly welcome Muslim hordes who will implement Sharia law when they gain political power in very near future.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: your a servent of the queen ireland the 26 counties is independent whether you like it or not :)
@J Byrne: I’m from the 26 counties,explain to me how I’m not “real Irish”?
We have less bank holidays than most European countries fact .Why not make it bank holiday.
@Finbar Redmond: we don’t really though because most European countries’ bank holidays fall on fixed dates, not first Monday of this or that. They lose bank holidays if they fall on a weekend unlike Ireland where we get every bank holiday every year.
So we didn’t lose independence a decade ago?Hmmm…
@Tom Goss: No. Pick up a history book.
@Tom Goss: No we didn’t lose it a decade ago. For those unaware, we haven’t yet won it. Ireland has 32 counties. Not 26.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: northern Ireland has 6 counties the republic has 26
@Paddy: Ireland has 32 counties.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: County Dublin was divided into three counties and a city as long as the 1980s. So you can’t count and you’re a…
Will we ever grow a set
Go for mid July for maximum chance of warmth..Whats a notable day in mid July in Ireland when people march about to music.??(answer not audible)..oh well .. January it is then…
Haha a complete joke when 6 counties aren’t included! leave it off lads
@Jasun Ó Cearnaigh:July is bare on the bank holiday front, in the Republic at least.Why not celebrate Ireland’s Independence Day on the First Monday of that month for the future?Setting a summer date for this celebration would be very considerate for working folks unable, for various reasons, to avail of longer summer holiday breaks.
@Rory J Leonard: Why not in July? Because Ireland does not yet have Imdepemdence so having an ‘Independence Day’ in July (or any other month) while we are still partitioned is the height of madness, perhaps.
‘Independence’???Serfs to our EU overlords more like.Ireland had more independence when we were under Brit rule.What a joke.
@VeeryDrink: More boring anonymous troll rubbish. Can you not find another hobby?
@VeeryDrink: Yes the freedom to live and die in poverty. The EU has done more for Ireland in the last 40yrs than the previous 100yrs of union with Britain or the 800yrs of occupation overall.
@Danny Rafferty: Good man ‘Danny’, from your anonymous twitter account……
@Rob: Waiting for you to produce statistics on that. Quite apart from the EU being massively funded by the UK as well.
Might want to wait until film independence is achieved there boss
@Thomas Harrington: full even
@Thomas Harrington: I thought you were lauding the idea of an indigenous  standalone film industry there for a minute as opposed to one that does subcontracting for Hollywood etc. Nearly gave it a thumbs up!
The obvious day would be 12 June (Houghton’s day) but that may conflict with exams.
Pointless without a day off!
According to some, Ireland can’t have an Independence Day until Robert Emmet’s epitaph is finally written. In the meantime, I suggest that we move St. Patrick’s Day to 17th May when sunshine and moderate temperatures are more likely to smile on public celebrations.
IF we are to have it I think it should be held on 1st of april because
Make it the first Monday in july, come on you know it makes independent sense.
? we’re are not independent, we are dependent on the EU
I’ll never accept independence day in this country until the north and south are unified.
July lads July. Need it in summer not bloody January
Ireland is still under Vatican rule but Vatican rule is gradually diminishing. Until Vatican rule and hegemony is ended, Ireland is not yet free and independent.
FFS make it in the summer
Another excuse for a national piss up. The Drinks Federation must be lobbying for this one
@Brian MacCarthaigh: How could it be a p1ss up when everyone is in work?
Independence of what, rediculous idea.
All ireland hurling final should be a national holiday,hurling is our national sport,,we should be all off work on the monday
Remember Arthur’s day
@John Baylon: No. It was a good one.
If it means a day off I’m all for it.
Don’t really care unless I get a day off let’s be honest
Seems pointless because people won’t treat it any different to any other day if it’s not a day off work.
But then a gov that’s desperately trying to improve their own popularity and fool people into thinking the country is booming will entertain the idea.
How about independace month ?
This is celebrated every year . Billy McGuire turns the seal at this event to keep our sovereignty alive . 2 years ago the seal was turned at the mansion steps as refusal to entrance to the mansion house . Our sovereignty is our land our assets etc .  This is celebrated every year but people should be told why it’s done ✅We only have a provisional government in place and for Ireland
January 21 is not our independence day. It’s April 26.
@prop joe: April 26th is not our Independence Day. We are not yet Independent.
Free State Government having Independence Day would make Orangemen very happy.
“We are not yet independent as long as the six counties etc etc.” Yes we are! I understand the nationalists need to feel included in the whole island but really, saying we’re not independent because of partition is ridiculous! Anyway, imo, St. Patricks day is enough already!
@wrong side: Saying we are independent while the country is divided and partly under foreign rule is what is ridiculous, you absolute halfwit.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: oh look, an ad hom. Classy. The Republic of Ireland is an independent country, it ain’t rocket science! You don’t get to impose your narrative.
@wrong side: The ‘Republic of Ireland’ is the name of a soccer team. It is not the name of the 26 county banana republic, according to it’s own ‘constitution’. It is also not a ‘narrative’ to state that Ireland did not suddenly come into existence in 1921. Our country being partitioned is not ‘independence’ by any twisted stretch of the imagination.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: Paper will not refuse ink. What name anything has is decided by consensus and Republic of Ireland is the consensus.
No, if it costs us
What’s the odds though that the schools will close, and the poor old teachers will get yet another day off.
Typical of the government Ind day what about the homeless
The presidents speech from the movie independence day is 67 characters too long boo-urns
@ed w: edit it into txt speak
Maybe you want to put that on hold…until Irexit!
Independence day = Retailers & Publicans licking their lips
This is something Ive actually been wondering and questioning about for a while: why do the large percentage of people in this country acknowledge the US Independence Day and yet couldnt even tell you when the Anglo-Irish Treaty was signed?Shops, pubs and TV run different promotions or events (in varying size) for July 4th yet we have never had something of our own.I always take off Dec 6th as a ‘personal holiday’ but we should definitely have a Public Holiday of our own.
@Ciaran Henry: The thing is…the day the treaty was signed was not the day Ireland won independence. It is the day the partition of our country was forced upon us against our wishes. We have not yet won Independence. We have 32 counties, not 26. Please don’t insult the Irish citizens of the 6 counties by suggesting Ireland has won Independence while we here remain stuck under british rule against our own wishes and against the wishes of the majority of the people in Ireland.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: why do ya bother trying to explain things to west brit trolls on here,,this whole thing has been invented by fg to wind people up,,you are wasting your breath
@Declan burke: Great Norman surname there Declan. That makes you a West Brit too in my book. You oppressed me in 1169.
Wait for unification of Ireland before declaring Independence..
I think we see enough fireworks in these comments sections alone, we don’t need a special day for them.
Silly me, I thought today was April 17 , not the first ! Further, I have just looked skywards and saw lots of pigs and kites flying !
Makes me frigging lath this mupet goverment,,talking crap about independence day,,don’t they realise our independents was given to the Troika,,shame on them shame on placing so many people in yrs of hardship no wounder we are the lathing stock of,,Europe and all and sundry looking in.
Do the Shit Feiners on here just read the Journal to get annoyed and start spouting their chucky our law nonsense?There is virtually zero support for their views.
Always wise to reject anything put forward by Fianna FAIL. It would just be hijacked by our balaclava loving idiots anyway. Well, after they split first over recognising it. As the Parish Priest in Toomevara once said on the day of the last judgement itself some people here wearing greenshirts would refuse to recognise the court!
Yes Ireland should certainly have its own Independance Day. It should be celebrated by everyone. It should be held in summertime on the longest day of the year. Of course it should be a bank holiday.
Bad idea, wrong date, an Irish version of Nigel Farage suggesting the date of the Brexit referendum result as the UK’s independence day. Fun fact the actual date of S. Irish independence is 7th March 1922. Born before that date and you can claim full British citizenship.
Marking the 12th in July would be a way to reach out to Unionism. Parliament Day sounds good.
Why are people suggesting that varadkar shouldn’t meet with Trump? Regardless of your political affiliation or opinion on trump, maintaining good relations with America is in the best interest of the country.
@Daniel Carson: Stop talking sense Daniel. It’s not appreciated on these forums.
@MK76: True Dan, but Dump is such an c***t, it could be worth making an exception for him. How satisfying to tell him to shove it.
@Daniel Carson: absolutely right. Not meeting the president of America should never be an option.
Let’s hope Leo gets a date for the Presidential visit….This year perhaps……Seeing the mayor of London says Trump is not welcome we can get one up on the Brits…..
@John003: Mayor of London didn’t say he wasn’t welcome. He said he isn’t deserving of a state visit and highlighted Londoners will protest his visit. Trump cancelled a visit to open the US Embassy in London himself due to some illogical nonsense that Obama sold the Mayfair Embassy which was actually sold by Bush.  Ireland have not invited Trump over on a state visit and it’s bizzare that May did weeks after he became president
What socks will he wear?! The suspense is killing me!
@Biggus Diccus: __ After giving it several days of serious thought, I’ve concluded that at least one of them might have a bit of green in it.
@Ted Murray: Green with white shamrocks or white with green shamrocks?
@Biggus Diccus:  I enjoy leaving you all in suspense, just be patient darling.
@Biggus Diccus: green ones with Make Ireland great again sown into them.
President Trump may one day receive the Noble Peace prize for his contributions World Peace, all going well, all that aside hope Varadkar minds his p’s and q’s!…
@Kate Flaherty: you know he kills more civilians per month in bombings than Obama right? And we both agree that it was a ridiculous thing to give it to Obama.
@Kate Flaherty: __ He might get the Noble Peace Prize, whatever that is, but he won’t get the Nobel Peace Prize.
@Ted Murray: Scientists have found that people who constantly correct other people’s spelling or grammatical errors are usually more inclined to be more disagreeable and difficult individuals!!…
@Kate Flaherty: __ As I don’t do it constantly, I’m a really nice bloke. :p
There must be an entire room in the White House filled full of crystal bowls that once had Shamrock in them.
@Ruairi Gagarin: that tradition is cringworthy.
@Ruairi Gagarin: The annually gifted bowls of shamrock are planted in the White House’s gardens and nurtered until they die off. That is why it is an Annual ‘refreshing’ Gift by every Taoiseach of our “great” country of Ireland to the “great” country that is America.
@Jengis O’Can: Is the shamrock not immediately destroyed by the secret service on health grounds?
@Valthebear: Yup
We are one of a few nations in the world that has a ticket to the White House every year. We need to make sure that continues. Leo needs to play the game.
More embarrassing every year.
And Ireland pays for everything you do, leo, even the millions you’re spending on trying to create your fake and bloated image!
Are these jollys to America still necessary? Leo going over to kiss their arses .Such a massive waste of tax payers money.
@Ray Farrell: Jesus, I was just eating a packet of crisps.
@Ray Farrell: 150,000 direct FDI jobs. Another 100,000 indirect. No other country gets guaranteed White House access every year. Was in US for Paddy’s in 2016 – Ireland gets blanket coverage on all stations for the two days. It literally is the only thing to put us on the map.And then you have the utter, utter idiocy of people back here complaining about access and coverage money could never, ever buy.This is why it is so difficult to ever take lefty commenters on here seriously.They would actively damage Ireland’s interests.
@Brinster: the 0.05% corporation tax is what has them here …Lefty commentators damage our interests .. your gas. FFG bankrupt us multiple times and it’s the lefties who damage OUR interests.
@Patabake Kennedy: we call them Taytos.
@Ray Farrell: With regards to wasting tax payer’s money I would certainly put the welfare system above diplomatic visits to America.
@Daniel Donovan: Most folk wouldn’t. Thank god.
@Brinster: Bull
@Michael Maher: Brilliant argument there Michael.Completely turned me around on this issue.You’re clearly a very smart man.
Ireland, as distinct from her people, is nothing to me; and the man who is bubbling over with love and enthusiasm for “Ireland,” and can yet pass unmoved through our streets and witness all the wrong and the suffering, shame and degradation wrought upon the people of Ireland-yea, wrought by Irishmen upon Irish men and women, without burning to end it, is, in my opinion, a fraud and a liar in his heart, no matter how he loves that combination of chemical elements he is pleased to call Ireland.James Connolly
:V̶a̶r̶a̶d̶k̶a̶r̶ Leo likely to indulge Pence and Ryan with talk of Irish roots.
@Griff: Could it not be suggested that the meeting between the orange one and the soup bowl haircut one have their pow wow in Ireland, at least it would be held in a semi neutral country.
@Patabake Kennedy: you said semi..
Google tells me that Paul Ryan is 48. His grandfather emigrated in 1851? How old was he when he sired Ryan’s da? 90?
@Paul Devlin: His great grandfather surely!
What about trumps hair roots
I might help pence with giving some extra irish flavour at the end of the night, once I’m finished with him he be well rooted.
Ah ye fools, ye fools! – ye who are knocking “Socky’s” visit to America.This is Ireland’s time of the year on the world stage – in America, China, Australia, the UAE, even in Ireland and wherever or whatever yer having yerself there.This is when Ireland sends its “Very Important” Irish people all over the world to entice business into Ireland and to re-generate business and jobs in Ireland.The result of these trips by “Very Important” Irish people has brought the establishment of more companies and jobs in Ireland than the majority of “Unimportant” Irish people could generate by themselves.Because of these marketing trips by “Very Important” Irish people all over the world around St Patrick’s Day, we have, today in Ireland, the European Headquarter Offices, factories, pharmaceutical and financial businesses of many International companies.Loads of business-orientated Irish-Americans can’t get tickets to attend the dinner that any American President holds for any Taoiseach of the Republic of Ireland every St Patrick’s Day occasion. Attending that dinner is the greatest opportunity for any business man or woman to “network” with the “Very Important” Irish people and establish or spread their business in Ireland or Europe.“Socky’s” – and other “Very Important” peoples’ trips to the USA and elsewhere around our world – is never a junket trip. It’s strictly business – for jobs in Ireland.Ask the “Really Very Important” Irish people who have jobs in Ireland because of our St Patrick’s blessings of idiotically called “junket-trips”.
Just waiting for what embarrassing moment of f up Trump will say or do this week..just waiting..
This country is up shit creek without a paddleThis junket is a string of junkets to sell ireland to americansPerhaps they arent working and he should maybe try NOT going
@Maurice Dodd: and this folks is an example of somebody who just doesn’t get the value of access to the world’s most powerful leader and the world’s biggest economy for one special day each year to sell our wares!
@Maurice Dodd: Ireland is already sold -
A smarm offensive.
If he Carrie’s ireland with him why does he refuse to wear a tricolor pin on his suit or even an easter Lily what a hypocrite
@Martin O Donnell: Is there a law that states we have to wear a tricolour or lily??
@Martin O Donnell: because he’s American so wears the us flag pin?
quite disgraceful and disgusting Leo of all people indulging these odious figures, Pence still believes in crazy unproven therapy that can cure gay people. Trump is just plain deranged and is intent of deporting as many undocumented as possible. There are those who will say not making government representatives for St. Patrick’s will make things worse? I’d love to how could it any worse. American companies will commence their exit from Ireland in the coming years anyway. It’s a pity Ireland’s government could not have showed some courage and said “enough” and boycotted Trump & Co this year
Leo don’t forget to show Trump your the star & stripes socks. Trump is easy to impress and will love them. Suggest you don’t mention anything about his hair he can be very touchy about that matter.
God speed.
We give them shamrock, they tell us how the irish but America and 40 million have irish blood, but we can Fcuk off if we’re looking for help for the undocumented irish, stop, it’s pathetic.
You’d have thought the government should “give back” to the North Inner City. Instead of ignoring it for decades.
@hughsheehy: “A number are offering internships and roles in the company and it is not just working in the post room, it is positions in good jobs with prospects. And as well, they are offering funds for sales training to allow some young people to experience time with sales training as part of a youth diversion programme,” he said,”I didn’t read anything there that suggested people getting paid.
@hughsheehy: FG in negelted areas like Noel Rock are only there on Labour transfers and are going to be toast when FF maul Leo from the long grass after referendum and before October as they can’t give Leo a budget of tax cut giveaways to the privileged like IFSC and of course Apple’s and cos piss taking tax paid of less than 1% of the 12.5% rate.
@hughsheehy: Jesus some people are never happy. All he said was that companies in the IFSC should help to boost employment in the immediate area behind them which is a deprived area of Dublin. A good common sense suggestion. Cue the whingers and the whataboutery.
It’s the Governments duty, to give back to the North inner city,Just typical of the Government,Blame everyone else ,for their failure to provide the basic needs of the community.The company’s in the IFSC pay their rates and taxes,It’s the Government who spent them
Leo should have to spend a week or two living in the inner city and other neglected areas and see is it easy. Leo wouldn’t even go sock shopping in the Henry St. area.
@Des Doran: about time the north inner city game back. 1000s of jobs were made availible to compete for. New train station. Luas at your door syop. A 3rd level college. Any ever walk by the boxing club at night? See how long you last, theres a reason why squad cars park in the area. The area needs to help itself first.
@Free speech has to return here: thats on the Northside      no one shops  there.
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan: agreed. I’ve had a long relationship with the area. Some people are just determined to destroy, steal, assault… my patience ran out years ago. ‘Socially Deprived’ my ar5e
@Des Doran: did you vote for them? Not having a go, but people vote for them or FF and seem to expect change.
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan: spot on.
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan: I live in the area – no idea what you are talking about! Walk around day and night and never a problem
The NCI college has been in the area for over 15 years and has excellent access programs that many locals have availed of to get good jobs. Courses are run in the evenings too, you don’t have to be a full time student. But if some other locals drop out of school early and have no interest why lay a guilt trip on the businesses, people have to help themselves too
@Michael McLoughlin:There’s no incentives to get ahead and make something of themselves. They are in a classic welfare trap…welfare, including the free house, is far too high relative to a lower paid job. Long term welfare needs to be cut, and cut substantially.
@Fred Joyson: i bet you  are a  great  bundle of fun.
@Fred Joyson: The corporate endless welfare continues with F all tax and tax avoidance facilitated by our state. Poverty paying employers get FIS welfare. Legal eagles get endless welfare through legal aid. Doctors get paid for every med and GP cardholder even if they never visit doc & so more welfare for the better off.  No one gets dole for a few months max without being forced on to some full time schemes ran by UK companies who are (friendly with the Tories and now FG)These activation companies get paid everytime(even if candidates repeated over and over with little success rate of job searching company) someone is forced on to them and they have a only 18% success rate of getting people into full time jobs.
Give back what to the North inner city? what has the North inner city ever done for anyone? They seem to have an inflated sense of their contribution to society.How about elements of the North inner city quit the criminality and anti-social behaviour.
People hand over half their wages for the luxury of long commutes and these guys live smack in the middle of the city centre in subbed accommodation. That’s messed up.
@Tony Dowling: Corporate welfare multiple times more
@Free speech has to return here: Dowling could refer to the subsidised accommodation and grants given to TCD. The well funded ghetto in the South inner city.
No they have a duty to give employment to suitable qualified candidates!!! Companies do not owe locals anything…it is up to parents to inspire their kids that they are good enough to go on to further education (such as national college of ireland on their doorstep, tcd over the river, st pats a half hour walk, dcu a bus ride away etc!) get qualifications and work hard.
@Blah blah: What has TCD ever given back to the community? TCD have been supported by the people of Ireland for generations, and have cost the taxpayers millions more than the north inner city ever did, without producing a scholar, never mind a product worth mentioning.
@Patricia McCarthy: Did you or somebody close to you lose out on a place in TCD by a few points??? That chip on your shoulder with TCD seems awfully large…
@John Connor: Is it yourself, the obsequious enquirer representing its little fraternity? Do tell me how the FMG debate is going at the students union. You are such a brave bunch of laddies. How about making a press statement? Ha ha ha.
@John Connor: While we are on the subject of FGM, you may by now, (as a student at TCD), have become familiar with the term FMGM. Feeble Male Genital Mutilation. It is widely practiced in Hindu, Buddhist, and Muslim cultures. A press release on the subject, in addition to an announcement on TCDs professed stance on the subject of FGM would be most welcome and no doubt educational.
Any corp going to pay more than 1% Leo?
They have a duty, so why is their tax rate at almost zero! I fear Leo is just exploiting these people.
The best option is to break these neighborhoods apart as they created these people and protect them. Yes there are decent people there but ultimately you can’t remove the rot surgically
A bad week for Leo and the gov, their multi million euro spin unit were found out for paying the media to produce positive gov biased news stories, and a few days later, it’s a photo opp with disadvantaged people from the north inner city. What are we supposed to think this is?
Yeah right.  More chance of finna ghoul and finna fail giving us those golden unicorns we were all promised in the last election.  International capital would be more interested in havning north inner city Dubliners removed to the sticks to accommodate their legions of imported workers. Minister is living in la la land
@Marc Power: My favorite part was when you said Fine Ghoul and Fianna Fáil. That was tremendous banter, it really was!
@Dolph Styles: cheers mate.  Probably like a lot of people i don’t hold much hope in these legacy parties.
Is it just me or is what Leo is saying is absolute garbage. Companies located in the IFSC do give back in many ways, they pay their taxes and provide employment. Also, many companies offer internships to students which provide them with experience and in some cases a job after college. The government should “give back” in some form to communities that are underprivileged.
It’s more than giving back, it’s about being socially aware, multi million deals every minute and they run to ignore the socially deprived out their windows, at least there high enough to look down on them
I don’t think Joseph Goebbels could do a better job than Leo’s propaganda machine.
What do the people in the inner city need ?
@The flute smoker: About 2.5 megatons
I commute myself so I know all about it. They are on the doorstep of the IFSC. It just seems bizarre that thetes no engagement.
@Erica McCluskey: its a culture of poor me and entitlement of inner city for generations
Clickbait, Daffy Duck and Violin Varadkar talking out of both sides of their faces. If this “development” plan was a pile of sticks you couldn’t make a match to light a fire. Lip service and no substance. Neglect in the north inner city has been ongoing for over 40 years, how many years have FFG been in power, all of them besides the debacle of PDs and FF. There is no democracy in the dail, how is that FFG can be in opposition/power at the same time. Madness
We should deport all of them far far away so they can fight and kill each other away from the rest of us.
@Paul: my mother  nursed  there in the 40s  guess nothing has changed..
Sounds like passing the buck to me. It’s the job of local and central government to “give back” companies are not responsible for regenerating the area the set up HQ in.
Jonathan Corrie died feet from Dáil Éireann, some gumption from the Fine Gael hypocrites.
Why don’t FG make it mandatory for IFSC companies to have quota system to employ some local people. Then at least they can be seen to be including them instead of just having a talking shop about it.
@Erica McCluskey: so not only do they get free accom in the CC, businesses should be under some sort if ob to emply them. Sounds fair.
@Erica McCluskey: I have to disagree, companies should not be forced to employ people from the local area. Local people can of course apply as long as the education and relevant experience is met
@Erica McCluskey: what about a young person up the road in Drumcondra for example? Parents who sacrificed so their child could go to college to get qualifications to be told sorry but your not from a “deprived area” so I’m giving it to this lad living behind ifsc who has no qualification!!
@Erica McCluskey:No that’s pie in the sky Erica, to be setting such quotas. We live in a meritocracy and employers should be free to hire whom they wish, within own set criteria. Whoever pays the piper calls the tune!But what should be considered is for local IFSC firms to have open days, maybe once a year, whereby local kids..and adults…are invited to visit a boardroom or canteen and hear from Management what goes on in a firm, and how a youngster might pursue a career in sector in question. Such could be very inspiring  to some young ears. Simple Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives wouldn’t break the bank.
As long as someone else pays and someone else is to blame, Socky’s spin department never misses a photo opportunity to self congratulate and pontificate.
Look at the head of Paschal as he gazes adoringly at Socky. It’s akin to the way a dog looks at it’s master.
Productive suggestion @Rory J Leonard.
Obama is cooler than any of us can ever hope to be
Don’t forget about all those kids Obama bombed while in office.Enda might be a wet blanket but at least he doesn’t have wiping out entire families on his conscience.
I wish Enda Kenny well. He wasn’t perfect, but he put in a massive effort and left our country in a better state.It is easy to denigrate, criticise, and belittle others. It is much harder to fix problems than offer opinions.Happy Christmas.
@Paul Cuddihy: Hi Paul what did Kenny government do or Kenny himself do to turn things around?
@Paul Cuddihy: Are we now as a country , heavily in debt , a debt we will probably never escape from unless we renege on it .This is a burden that future generations will hold , was there no other way ?We have been sold down the river , by the likes of weak minded people like Enda .
@Ken Hayden: So of the 214 billion debt and remembering that most of Anglo debt has yet to be added – what would a strong minded leader done differently?
@lavbeer: Lavbeer , I was away at the time , so am not up with the numbers , did we have a 214 billion debt to start with , or did Ireland end up with that .I’d love to know how this number was arrived at , it’s a lot of houses , especially when they were sold off for a lot less than this amount .
@Declan Byrne: what did you do Declan? No need to belittle Kenny just because you can’t comprehend what the government does,
@Paul Cuddihy: ah, the old “you were never in that position, belittleing the opinion” argument! I’d say he filled a space for a few years, when there were no other takers. Our politicians are a poor bunch in general anyways going by recent history, ie: state bankrupcy, part of the PIIGS in the EU, imf bailout, quadrupling the national debt.
@Paul Cuddihy: he executed the FF/troika programme, making amendments to dump the burden more on those with the least. He introduced a series of regressive budgets meanwhile denigrating two pint man and paddy…great man.
@Paul Cuddihy: yeah he was really super. Great man for Germany & France – useless on health, the homeless crisis, Garda corruption etc. Feathered his nest brilliantly. A gombeen politician for gombeen people.
@lavbeer: Like I said , I’d love to hear about it .
@Declan Byrne: u must’ve been asleep for the past 7 years
@Paul Cuddihy: he’s a second rate teacher and a good for nothing pension collector. The back of my hand to him.
@Paul Cuddihy: your a disgrace to humanity.
@frank murphy: They have concrete bollards at the top of Grafton st , is that enough .
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan:  Hi Shawn I worked my arse off and paid my taxes that is what I did. I didn’t be little Enda but I did genuinely ask what did the man do to turn things around ?
@frank murphy: a legend in his own mind
@Declan Byrne: shinner ya ?
@Misanthrope: our national debt went up about 40 billion (net) from saving the banks. Thats about half of the deposit liabilities of one of our banks. Genuine question, what if we let any one of them fail? Its shite we had to burden the cost but it was the least worst scenario
@Paul P O’Sullivan: we could have let Anglo collapse without any consequence to the taxpayer. That was the largest part of the bailout, 30$billion or so.
A lot of messages from those who have no clue what Enda did to those with nothing. Nothing to be proud of Enda as you collect your unearned pension……
@Kerry Blake: EXACTLY!!
Kenny sacrificed the working classes,the vulnerable in society,to protect bankers,corporations etc.hope to never see the likes of him again.
@@mdmak33: No wonder we only have 60 army rangers left , imagine being given the job of protecting that flake .
@@mdmak33: we have leo, he is even worse
Anybody congratulating kenny obviously has no clue about irish politics. To name just a few scandals unded his watch…record numbers of homeless and patients on trollies, record waiting lists in hospitals and garda whistleblower scandal. Then theres the apple tax saga and paying off non protected bond holders and allowing our coastal waters to be raped of all natural resources whilst he retires with x million in a golden handshake and how many pensions is it??
Ahh bless, his minions sent in sycophantic thank you notes
@Jarlath Murphy: Wait till Adams steps down – even Bertie went in 6 weeks – expect to see much the same stuff.
Someone please tell me this is a windup.
@itzme: it’s a windup
You cant keep everyone happy as Taoiseach . I am no Kenny fan however he was one of our better leaders . Very low bar to be one of our better Leaders.
@Declan Byrne: better then Bertie  ,Cowen,Haughey,?
Can everyone remember what enda kenny was faced with when he came to office. Record unemployment and the countrys markets at junk bond status. He left us in a far better position than he found us
@Peter O’Donovan: No he left some people in a far better position, the majority were inflicted with more hardship which a lot of people are still suffering under Leo. He was an out and out chancer .
@Peter O’Donovan: he did f**k you numpty. The people of Ireland did all the heavy lifting – internationally things turned around for some & Kenny just held on – placating his paymasters until he was done. An abject failure of a man & a politician but clowns such as yourself just blow hot air – no substance to your comment at all. Fact.
@Setrakian:No substance to your comment either you d**khead. Put your real name on there. What was the unemployment level when he got in and when he left?
@Peter O’Donovan: This is my real name , Ken Hayden .How much debt is this country saddled with ?Please tell me , how much money do we owe to the troika .Come on , tell me .
@Peter O’Donovan: homelessness
@Peter O’Donovan: he tied a mountain of debt around the necks of our children and grandchildren. Himself and old baldy. They will curse him.Never took a hard decision in his life and retired an abject failure on multiple pensions.
“My seven year old daughter shed a tear”…..At Enda leaving….Tell her to cop onto herself…Santa’s coming. Jesus.
And I shed tears of joy when you were gone..
I lost all respect for kenny when he let that little french upstart pat him on the head like a puppy dog ,i would have planted him one there and then and took the consequences ,he never had balls just like the two that fought to replace him .
And I thought Leo’s pr machine was solely for his own ego.
@Trevor Beale: So true it don’t matter who’s in power or how good they are people will still ridicule them.
So even with an article on Enda , you couldn’t leave Trump out  .
8000 thousand children in emergency shelters , people struggling to survive pay rents , success ?
Useless’ as the saying goesThose who can’t do ‘ Teach
Vomit
even my 7 year old shed a tear ,ha ha ha ha,
The guy was totally out to lunch, having imaginary meetings and conversations with ministers and lads with a pint in each hand.Worst Taoiseach ever.
Thank goodness he’s gone; not that his follow-up is any better.  The States has their moron, we have ours.
Wasn’t our greatest Taoiseach but after Cowen anyone was an improvement. Much more of a manager than a leader but lead when he needed to and got the conditions right to get us out of the shitter. Ultimately we’re seeing the problems of a lost decade now though and how a medium sized city with no infrastructure and massive population growth can’t sustain itself in the boom if the infrastructure isn’t there. My Christmas wish to Leo is metro North, Dart Underground and expansion and regulations to say new developments must be high rise to curb the rental hell.
@Darren Bates: the Metro north has been given the go ahead,Murphy has said higher buildings on the way ,as they delivered on full employment fast growth LUAS  north side and joined up ,childrens hospital ,maternity hospital on the way,we are entering a golden era for Ireland if we don’t screw it up ,like putting FF/SF into power and watch it all go down the toilet bowl
Plenty of trolls on this as per usual…Honestly, I liked Enda… not here for a political debate or to justify my position.. I’m not affiliated to any political party but I just liked the guy.. he wasn’t perfect but he dedicated his life to public work which isn’t easy… yes he was paid for it but it is a hard job for which he was elected… yes he messed up numerous times but I get the feeling that his intentions were always good! I just liked himAs for the trolls, it’s easy to throw barbs from behind a keyboard.. he is at the end of the day an Irish citizen like everyone else, no need to make it personal
No fan of F.G. or F.F. when Kenny became Taoiseach with the support of the so called Labour party the writing was on the wall for the workers and ordinary Irish people. F.F.facilitated the gangesterism of the banks and developers. Kenny supported by so called Labour party endorsed their gangesterism through austerity measures,  cut backs to social services, while at the same time Noonan,  Nama sold this country to vulture fund companies. Kenny,s legacy… thousands homeless, Thousands in Hotel and B&B.s. accommodation , a crumbling health service scandal after scandal. His successor no better. Ironically the party that brought this country to it’s knees now keep the Thathreite Blueshirts in power. That’s Kennys legacy.
No one is totally useless, he can always be used as a horrible example.
Ruined the country and rode off into the sunset with his huge pensions just like the many parasitic leeches before him.
A brilliant Taoiseach, the best we’ve had in the last 20 years. Reduced national debt, unemployment from 14.7% to near full, increased business and credit ratings, public expenditure, increased exports leading to an export lead economy. The naysayers, begruders and ignorant will sit in their chairs and type how he did nothing only look after himself. To them I wish a happy Christmas and an enlightening new year
The English royal is referred to by his title, the President of the United States is not. There endeth my reading of the article, I hope it was a good one.
@KerryBlueMike: Very sensitive.
@KerryBlueMike: to be fair we all know who they mean when they say Trump, not sure saying Charles would be as obvious to people.
@KerryBlueMike: snowflake
@KerryBlueMike: Is that Basturd?
Leo has a lot to be grateful to Trump for, Trump showing him the way on using tweets for news deflection and media manipulation.
@Adrian: but he’s not fooling you is he Adrian?!
@Shea: absolutely not :)
All sh!te gifts, no doubt they all ended up in the dumpster the second Leo’s back was turned
@Mark Jones:Mayo jersey was only €43.05. Official kit jerseys should be about €65 each. There’s a tribunal in that.
@Tweed Cap: cost price from the kit supplier I’d imagine.
Socks and jocks
We must be pretty stingy with the State’s gifts!
Gifts are from the Irish nation
That pair aren’t even on my gift list.
Bozo trump should not get anything fom us
Leo just wanted to rip the socks&jocks  off Justin!!!
So no Russian ties then lol.
Did he just wake up suddenly in the middle of the night and think about this? “Wait a minute, did I say Margaret Hassan was a Muslim?!”
@Toon Army: In the course of writing memoires most politicians use the official parliamentary records, speeches, contemporaneous media and their personal & political diaries for reference.   He’s obviously writing about the changing political scene and Islamic terror affecting Irish citizens.RIP Ms Hassan.
Seems a bit strange to be correcting it now, still though fair enough!
@Hardly Normal: Ex professional liar makes a statement about the truth. You couldnt make it up
Any other lies he told about McCabe, what he knew and when it knew it re Tusla spent forty years in the Dail and the most he done was promote his girlfriend Miss Piggy to cabinet oh and lie a Lot.
Good to know our former leader only fxxkxd up once
@Eugene Conroy:  a day
Well that’s one lie he has admitted to when will he come clean on all the rest?
How many more statements will he have to correct
Who knows what else a guilty conscience will throw up. A political shrimp.
Probably the greatest conman ever to doss in the Dail, and thats saying something considering the stiff competition he was up against.
Pity he can’t undo his whole political career
What did he originally say that Ms Hassan had converted?  What was the factual basis for the original assertion. He has not explained how and why he got it so wrong.
@Fiona deFreyne:It is strange that no context is given.It seems like a very odd lie to make up, especially when the tribute was positive and commemorative.Presumably given incorrect information?
@Fiona deFreyne: The Irish Times, Guardian and maybe the Independent all published that claim.
So endais still a TD …turning up is optional is it?
I don’t want to see this idiot’s face anymore.
@blackjack:More fool you, did you see his pension?
@blackjack You dont have to..he has not been in The Dail, up to yesterday at least on any of the 70 days it has sat since he retired as Taoiseach…hes still a TD
@Nigel O’Neill: Totally incorrect.. but don’t let that get in the way of your narrative.
@Stephen Maher: you must mean his pensions – TD, Minister, Teachers full pension even though he did not work as a teacher in forty years.
Enda. How dare you insult a person by assuming – quite likely because of her married name – that she had converted to Islam. You insulted her memory but also that if her family and wide circle of friends who adored her. Thirteen years to give an apology. Go away.
I wonder were they trying to pretend she was a Muslim at the time to spare her life? I remember the government issuing an Irish passport to Kenneth Bigley at the time in an effort to save his life.
A blue shirt playing for Mayo. Now there’s a thought . Not another own goal I hope .
@Mick Andrews: Sure if he doesn’t win a seat he can keep trying at every election thereafter, just like the nearly men of his county. Mayor have given us the Flynn’s and Enda. Please Mayo don’t vote FG .
@Niall Quinlan: didn’t he fix the roaaads?
All prospective candidates should be a Councillor first to gain experience
@Brían Ó Cionnaith: why?
@Brían Ó Cionnaith: People who actually work in and for the local community must be disgusted by such an offer. This makes a mockery of the vocation usually involved in local representation.
@Noel Ryan: “vocation” lol
@Honeybadger197: You might laugh, but the level of commitment required to be well regarded and well known in the local community is not to be sneezed at. Why don’t you give it a go yourself.?
@Noel Ryan: Good man councillor ryan!
@Noel Ryan: I’d argue balancing inter county football and a job is a tougher gig than being a TD. He’ll have my vote. Absolute gent
@figi98: Did you read any of the genuine concerns raised in the above comments? Would you not want to at least hear what he can bring to the table? This is why we end up with the same f@cking clowns!!!!!!
Fine Gael goes for the local celebrity option again…
@Andrew English: Your surprised??
@Kerry Blake: absolutely not. We’ve had the same approach here in Louth… Losing the Leinster final in 2011 was the best thing to ever happen sex Ed and abortion expert Peter Fitzpatrick.
Another substitute appearance
The good old gravy train, who wouldn’t want to jump onboard.
From working in a pharma factory to the dail… bit of a change and a higher salary and other perks…..
Kenneth egan.
The Irish political system is a fcekin joke .whats next Conor mcgregor standing for people before profit
@Paul Knowles: If the party nominate him and he gets elected what’s the joke. If he runs a good campaign and is voted in he deserves to be there that’s the way it works….
@Padraic Burke: straight from a  GAA career into the DAIL , that’s the joke Padraic you’re obviously a blue shirt with tunnel vision
@Paul Knowles: Naw – Halawa for Taoiseach. Comes from good Irish stock. Will get Beef contracts with Egypt. Oh wait?
@Paul Knowles: actually would you believe I’m a Fine Fail supporter and your the first person to tell me I have tunnel vision. If he gets nominated and wins the election he has the right to represent don’t see what’s wrong with that. Your just like every other idiot on here criticising everything in the news but never really doing anything to influence change.
@Paul Knowles: I thought, he’d be more SF and would suit their politics?
Nobody could replace enda Kenny.Unless its kim jong, sorry maybe that’s a little harsh.Sorry kim, your a murderer, enda prefered to toss them out on the streets and let mother nature do its worst, slowly and painfully.
Ah here…
The blue shirts put a nail in the coffin of Dillon’s sporting ambitions. My expectation is that the Blueshirts will now do likewise to his political ambitions.
Best of luck Alan, a worthy candidate.
@Bob McTanned: why?
@Bob McTanned: What qualifications does he have? What will he bring to the party. Or is it the usual ‘Footballer, well known’ qualification with no substance?
Nothing but good folk came out of mayo.Now where’s me GPS
Parish pump politics at its worst, he has no experience and an ex GAA man. Lets elect him, for his footballing skills and ability to kick cans down a road.
I saw this on twitter earlier and I thought it was a Waterford whispers article
He will have to be good at telling lies if he wants to be a FG TD or FF TD sure there all the  same
Fair play to you Dillo.If you do decide to run then the best of luck to you and fu#k the begrudgers.As for All the knockers,keep your unwanted opinions to yourselves.Ye know fu#k all about the lad so keep the cheap shots to yourselves.
@Padraic McHugh: I know he wants to support a repulsive party so f*ck you and him-that’s my opinion, suck it up!
And we wonder why this sh#$hole is f#$@ed
“It is great to see new people join us in Fine Gael”. The bould Ring already putting Dillon down. What? Someone new suddenly gets on the ticket? What about the stalwarts?On another note, I see Lisa McDonald in Wexford has election size posters out in abundance advertising some meeting or other she’s having. Nice woman, nice family, but as she’s FF, no thanks.
This is everything that’s wrong with Irish politics.
A big opportunity to get his snout in the trough.
Another reason to hate bogball!
Mario rosenstock hasn’t a patch on Oliver CallanHe is just brilliant..
@gerry fallon: he’s better at impersonations, he’s just not funny….. at all
He’ll always be a poor man’s Mario Rosenstock.
@John Arc: He is definitely not poor
@John Arc: I’d say the reverse is true Rosenstock is a clown whereas Callan is a satirist in the mould of Spitting Image… both have great impressions whereas Callan makes a political point whereas Rosenstock does jokes – whichever you prefer i guess.
@John Arc: He works for RTE…There’s no way he’s poor
@Old Gabby Johnson: spot on Gabby. Callan is brilliant
@Old Gabby Johnson: well said
@frank sullivan: back to bed fake account frank,
I think he’s a great impressionist, satirical and funny as well. Mario, sorry no, not a patch.
His Baron Adams speaking Irish is priceless.
@frank sullivan: That sounds like great craic. Have you got a link to it?
@The Risen: SF censorship dept is up early eh Brendan?
@Old Gabby Johnson: Get out the wrong side of the cot this morning Gabby?
@The Risen: Literally every week, check out the podcast. Its hilarious.PS I dont post links. Lots of good republican around, one can never be too careful, you know how it is shinnerbot :)
@frank sullivan: So, no link.
@The Risen: podcast on rte website, their app, and im sure there is plenty on youtube too. Endless laughs. Hi Mary Lou ‘I’ll have chips with that’ is priceless.As i said i dont post links, to many unhinged ‘good republicans’ about and we all know their tendency for violence.
@frank sullivan: I listen to his podcast and haven’t heard more than a couple of words of Irish at the start of a sketch. I’m sure you meant something more than that.Got a link?
@The Risen: rte.ie
@frank sullivan: LOL!Caught once again….
@The Risen: rte.ie not working shinnerbot?It’s fun leading my little stalker around. Your obsession with me is very amusing indeed. Desperately running to twitter with every post :DIts like i occupy a permanent space in your brain PMSL
That clip is excellent, he got them spot on.As an aside, it’s refreshing to finally see somebody acting like the Taoiseach.
@The Risen: It would be fun to see SF act like opposition but I suppose ye are too busy with the bullying?
@The Risen: fantastic news form Leo regarding the freeloader, i am sure you are outraged?#FeelingGoodWithFineGael
@The Risen: You appear to have poor old frank in a spin, he’s following you around the journal like a lost little puppy and its incredible entertaining ;-)
@Frank Cauldhame: Only until he’s banned again. Then he’ll be ack with another account that’s been automatically flagged and restricted by twitter.Hugely entertaining….
@The Risen: I’m not going away you know LOL
Neither is twitters interest in you, or me pointing it out:)
@The Risen: Is that all your mates in twitter again Brendan? PMSL
@The Risen: what percentage of your day do you spend obsessing with me? Would you admit you have a crush?
It is hard to caricature those who are already walking/ talking caricatures.Leo is acting as Taoiseach.
@Fiona deFreyne: Well then he can add acting to his political prowess also. Is there anything he cant do?
@frank sullivan: sort out the Irish economy, the health crisis, the homeless crisis, the corruption in the gardai, the cartel behaviour of the insurance industry and the complete disregard for society of the banks.
@Jeffrey McMahon: yes, the real priority issues.
Its incredibly easy to impersonate Enda, just have a gombeen expression on your face and for Leo all you have to do is show off your socks in the most fascist way imaginable.
I was only listening to Callans Kicks last night and I thought it was brilliant. Great Impressionist and not afraid to make some important points. Thanks Journal for posting this.
His Marian is a masterpiece :-) Ryan T – very difficult because he doesn’t have strong vocal characteristics.
The Master
From the photo, it looks as though he’s currently perfecting his Louis C K routine.
Who cares . Both of those who he impersonate people are stremely annoying be they professional or otherwise
Fair play Leo, you can’t win sometimes! I think your doing a decent job so keep it up
@Rob: unemployment rate down to 6 % , there are 90,000 Indian immigrants in the USA with PhDs, many in high tech companies,so he’s going to garner a lot of interest, anyway out there working for the country
@Rob: Unemployment down to 6% ,don’t tell the shinners or looney left that ,there are 90,000 Indian immigrants in the USA with Phd’s many in high tech jobs,he will garner great interest,anyway he’s out there working for the country
@Robert Harris: sorry posted from two different devices first did not seem to work ,it did
@Rob: Agreed Leo is doing a decent job, but must keep the natives happy too and not let the others walk all over us.
@Robert Harris: that’s ok. reading it twice makes you sound twice as naive
@Living The Laws: are you the dude thatb called the people of Castlebar dopes in a post below
@Robert Harris: why on earth would the “looney left” care about that? It’s the alt-right that has a problem with foreigners!!! The “looney left” would want equality for all and welcome all. You really are confused.
@Robert Harris: yep. Why?
It’s all about Leo
Irish people are being left behind, these tech jobs import new people from abroad to fill them leaving the irish worker the options to leave or stay here homeless and unemployed.
@David Huston:Any chance of some evidence to support that BS?
@David Huston: Naturally some do come from elsewhere but plenty of Irish talent is employed by Facebook, Google etc
@David Huston: it’s called localisation and translation and customer service that is best delivered by mother tongue speakers than some dope from Castlebar with leaving cert Hungarian or Uzbek. So bringing people in is very important.On average the biggest tech companies in the world will hire many 1000s of people every year. There is no credit for Leo in these announcements.Leo should’ve met with their accountants and discussed reparations for the many years of tax evasion carried out with his FG/F2F predecessors.But he’s rather the photo op. He’s a waster.
@George Oscar Bluth: A job is a job, but a genuine question what else do Irish  people get from working with  Google or Facebook.
@Living The Laws:  are there a lot of dopes in Castlebar ?
@Chris Kirk: ?
@Chris Kirk:The tech companies provide training, further opportunity, good working environment, experience and lots of other benefits too.
@David Huston: Any chance you could ask Apple for the money they owe us Leo, you know the money we need for our homeless and hospital crisis.
@Robert Harris: its not exclusive to Castlebar. Mayo in general. Tipperary has its share. Roscommon is full of them apparently but I can’t vouch for that.
@Living The Laws: It’s not all about Leo , it’s about jobs and the Athenry objectors should hang their heads in shame, they have denied the Country and it’s people jobs. There is no excuse for those that objected including the person who was not even from the locality, they should be ostracised and held as Traitors to the Nation.
@David Huston: opportunites to upskill?
@James Keogh: you should move to north korea or some other place where such charges are brought against people for expressing their own views. and bring a load more off this island with you too.Maybe Apple will get over themselves and try to see the real value of such an investment in Ireland. and given their past indiscretions regarding how they have defrauding Irish people of billions in taxes then they might see it as some token.
Tax breaks. Its all about the tax breaks.
@John Culhane: Jobs. It’s all about jobs.
@John Culhane:And what is wrong with that? Tax is a tool at the Irish government’s disposal which helps to attract companies to Ireland which employ people.
@Nick Allen: are Irish companies permitted to change their operating name to renew their FDI benefits every 3 years? Some of these guys have been doing that for 40 years. Some if these ha e paid less than 200m on profits of 10bn in a single year but because of the architecture agreed with the IDA and Finance Department, they keep getting away with it.
@James O’Nolan: When you are younger it is all about getting work experience. But as you begin to age you need to have markers put down to secure your future. Do jobs with Apple, Google and Facebook honestly give the kind of security people in Ireland need these days.I am not pessimistic but with four of my kids working down under it would be nice to know the facts about the future here.
@Living the Lies: ” Some if these ha e paid less than 200m on profits of 10bn in a single year”This is a flat out lie.Just a lie.From a liar.
@Brinster: not a lie at allit depends on whether you consider their accounting practices to be correct or noton 22.6bn in revenues google declared 47m in taxes and 300m net income. it also claimed that it had 16.7bn in expenses. lol. for a couple of thousand people and estimated 750m in infrastructure.i understand how their model works. the expenses are costs to the parent company through local licensing deals that means they will always pay minimum tax here whilst they horde cash.i know two of the architects of the scheme. it was set up on the MSFT and Apple model of old.but of course you are welcome to believe what you like and let them and others defraud the irish people. knowing you then you probably think you know better. let me assure you that you do not.
@Brinster: oh, by he way, your ignorant accusations don’t do your baseless argument any good. it just demonstrates the same void in your social skills as you have in your business and economics skills.
@Living The Laws: You said they paid €200 million on €10 billion profit.That is a lie.Of course you could always provide a link that could prove me wrong.But you won’t. Because you can’t.Because it is a lie you made up.
@Brinster: you’re right, i probably underestimated the profitsless than 200 million. i should have said less than 50mgood catchnow run along and continue to believe that these companies are here or the benefit of ireland.
Jesus you’d think he had a direct mandate from the people the way this ‘self-publicist’ is parading around the globe.. Happy Tax Haven Leo.
@Martin Critten:Yeah, what’s he at, the leader of our country meeting industry leaders and trying to get them to come to Ireland and create jobs. Where did he get the idea that was part of his job role
@Martin Critten: when was the last time Ireland was led by someone with a ‘direct mandate from the people’?Charlie Haughey? Bertie? Trying to recall whose great legacy you are pining for…
@Martin Critten: is he ever at home these days?
@alphanautica: not so much pining just looking for the missing link..
@Nick Allen: last time I looked over 80% of the population doesn’t work for a multi national and their companies pay more tax and prop these bleeders up..
Facebook is now a political tool that people should stop using….Zuckerburg caught on a hot mic with Merkel shows Facebook for what it is.
Any sign of Apple paying up?We could try sort the housing crisis a bit and all them people suffering.
@Sarah Ennis: how many jobs have you created lately?
@Sarah Ennis:Maybe if we told Apple to go elsewhere we could add a further 4.000 People to the dole queue and housing crisis not to mention the tax these people pay would no longer come into the system
Facebook have been building on a site near Clonee for the last 12 months so for Leo to make a claim on his trip that 100 jobs are confirmed they were always going to happenLeo all spin and no substance………….
@john kennedy: And more complete horse manure from people who hate to see jobs being created.Doesn’t fit their agenda.
@Brinster: I’ve no problem with jobs being created but Leo is spinning as if it was his doing tw.t
There’s something a bit sad and pathetic about all this.. Reminds me of the old ‘man from del monte’ ads.. The peasants waiting for the overlord to say yes.. Corporations really are the new heads of state.. A new type of feudalism..
@Bart Teeling: aww sorry if you feel that way. The young people of Ireland won’t when they start their new jobs. What should we do? Act like a big roller on an island of 4-5 million people (there’s more people in London) or play to our advantages. That has worked extremely well for us. We punch way above our weight.
@Deborah Behan: but it’s all thanks to our links to Europe
If we believe thinks that these hard headed american business types soak up the Irish malarkey we’re in for  a shock. They are capable of being polite though when it suits then Regarding Athenry does he not not see he’s being punished for failing to deliver on the European  tax issue.We dont have any relationship with these people and will be dumped the instant it suits them Will he ever come to realise that his relationships with those people will be one of master and boy, or not atall. They would actually respect us more if we respected ourselves and enforced our Irish and European laws without fear or favour. Freedom is not free.
@Jointheclubtoo: political engagement is just a tiny but helpful portion of the process in FDI. Only the naive, inexperienced and misguided expect the planet to operate according to some socialist theorist’s textbook scribblings.
@alphanautica: What in the honour has socialist scribblings got to do with it. Oh maybe you mean Socialist Germany or the rest of the EU who don’t want us ot be playing games and allowing them to be defrauded of their proper tax returns. If you think always giving in, and constantly prosituting ourselves out is the way forward you’re the naive one
It would be interesting to know what percentage of employees of Apple, Google, Facebook, Twitter and Linkein in Ireland are Irish.
@Fiona deFreyne: Irish were in the minority in Microsoft for a long time. not sure now but I can’t imagine it has change. Probably the same for other software companies. I am not sure about platform companies such as twitter and facebook.
@Fiona deFreyne: Interesting to know… might help us upskill as a nation.Important to remember all employees are Irish taxpayers and could up-stakes in the morning if we screw up our tax strategy.
@David Huston: I totally disagree. Yes they need to recruit from abroad however this is usually to do with language capabilities.  The other thing working in the tech industry, a huge proportion if the jobs they create are in sales and customer service and don’t typically require master degrees in rocket science. That being said, I struggled to get into tech sales for years due to lack of experience in tech sales (the catch 22) so took the logical approach and started a degree in IT then approach the company I wanted to work for again after finishing my first year and successfully got a job.The bottom line Is, if you want something, work hard, look at the options available to help you get the job you want and go for it. I’m a firm believer you can do what you want providing you put the work in.For what it’s worth, I did this in my 30′s with 2 kids, mortgage etc, struggled for a couple of years financially but looking back it was well worth it.So to answer your comment about foreign workers coming in and taking up these jobs. The option is there to do something about it by educating yourself. Maybe learn a new language, whatever it takes and those jobs could be won by Irish workers. I know it’s not always easy but I think its always possible to improve even a little.
@Cathal O’Murchu: Well stated Cathal !
Yay Go Verucca. I mean it’s not like there’s any crisis at home is there. Health system, Homeless,  Guarda,  Lack of property,  Tax Avoidance by individuals and Corporates, rural Crime and a pitched war between two major crime gangs.  Nope absolutely no reason he should be tooting around USA at all
Why isn’t he traveling to China, India or North Korea to get their companies to relocate to Ireland.  Maybe he can get Elon Musk to move there once the US government stops subsidizing his company.
@Mark Fields: Gorry’s got NK sorted.
Have the three leprechauns been arrested yet.
Should be “docked our” not doctor. Docked our pay, docked our services, docked our standing in europe, docked our ability to cope with housing crisis…
@Anto Curran: congratulations Enda. One of the great statesmen of our time. History will look kindly on his period in office. A giant of modern day Ireland. Well deserved recognition.
@Pepper Brooks: agreed, i miss him,rescued the country
@Robert Harris: “rescued the country”Nope. Rescued hoteliers, vulture funds and the rest of the 1%. ‘The country’ includes the people in it, such as the number of children in persistent poverty which doubled on his watch, and a homelessness issue which became a national emergency, also on his watch.And as for his pledge to ‘end the scandal of patients on trolleys’?Some rescue.
@The Risen: ah the shinners ,where do i begin,let’s just say you wanted us to join with Greece and take on the world,yeah right,see the weekend poll ,stagnant going south dude remember when you were top ,most popular ,where did it all go wrong
@Robert Harris: Ah yes, the weekend poll. Let’s see how it was reported on other news outletsirishexaminer.com/breakingnews/ireland/no-budget-bounce-as-fine-gael-and-fianna-fail-slip-in-opinion-polls-810851.html“No ‘budget bounce’ as Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil slip in opinion polls”independent.ie/irish-news/news/no-poll-boost-for-leo-varadkar-despite-give-away-budget-36248931.html“No poll boost for Leo Varadkar despite ‘give away’ budget”rte.ie/news/politics/2017/1021/914230-opinion-poll-sbpredc/“Support for main parties dips in latest opinion pollThere are no post-Budget gains for either Fine Gael or Fianna Fáil, according to the latest Sunday Business Post/RED C opinion poll. ”:)
@Pepper Brooks: beautiful sarcasm.
@Robert Harris: LOL, with FF policies and taking credit for it like Trump is with Obama’s rescue of US economy. A Doctorate, for stupidity is more fitting.
@The Risen: FF/FG/SF/L, a cancer on our Democracy and should be removed!
@Anto Curran:    Can I have one as well? I don’t knowingly hurt people and I am articulate when I speak.
@Robert Harris: Rescued the economy anyway, ‘rescued the country’s far more contentious.
@The Risen: And the 100,000+ people who got jobs during his time as Taoiseach.
@Pepper Brooks: well said!
@Robert Harris: lol, baiting the shinners. Agree wholeheartedly. Enda was our greatest Taoiseach no doubt.
@Pepper Brooks: one of the greatest liars Ireland ever produced and the most talentless, a disgrace.
@Gillian Weir Scully: no chance there then
@Pepper Brooks: These ‘awards ‘ are handed out like smarties by third rate Irish institutions to make themselves feel important.His only achievement was to tie a debt mountain around our children’s necks. His economic policy was ‘borrow and be damned ‘.Even the Shinners could do that.
@Pepper Brooks:  What drugs are you on ? .. Great Statesman me boll*x  .. man refused to debate any issue without his pre-prepared speak from his 1 million a year team of advisiors   .. he was also a terrible liar .. “Man with 2 pints ”  etc ffsHe more like a MasterDebater.
Devalues any Doctorate that was worked for and earned,Why is it we give these laurels to such hollow, average men of no merit
Journal Truth filter is on full power, Comments removed.
@Brian O Reilly: He deserves one more than Cowen though.
@Brian O Reilly:  Agreed on that , I shall be posting my Degree back to them ..
Enda joins a long line of underperforming Taoisigh ,….Biffo, Bertie and Bruton
@tom McCormack:Enda is outstanding in his field?the scarecrow has frightened all the birds off.
@tom McCormack:What Taoisigh did well, in your opinion?
It’s immorral and unethical to tax a person’s home, quote from our much esteemed and unethical ex taoiseach
@Derek Richardson: when did he say that?
@Pepper Brooks: Before he spoofed his way into office, along with all the other empty words. He even put them on billboards, if you remember.
“It is morally unjust and unfair to tax a person’s home, and by so doing grind him into the ground. Indeed in cases it could probably be unconstitutional….It reminds me of a vampire tax in that it drives a stake through the heart of home ownership, through enthusiasm and initiative, and sucks the life blood of people who want to own their own home and better their position” “If the Government fail to appreciate the passion with which people will defend their rights to own their home and have it looking as well as it should, it is making a serious mistake” – Enda Kenny
@The Risen: I asked you when he said that quote? Beautiful avoidance of the question as usual. When, what year exactly?Secondly – your talking outright lies when you say that quote was printed on a billboard. Link to prove it please? Take your time.
@Pepper Brooks: He said it in 1994
@Pepper Brooks: Why does it matter when? If it is “morally unjust and unfair to tax a person’s home” then, why shouldn’t it be now, or vice versa?
@Pepper Brooks:http://debates.oireachtas.ie/dail/1994/02/02/00007.aspand there is the official Dail debate record of that day.
@Carl O Neill: Link didn’t work properly , the statement was made on Wed 02/02/1994
@Carl O Neill:http://oireachtasdebates.oireachtas.ie/debates%20authoring/debateswebpack.nsf/takes/dail1994020200007?opendocument
@Carl O Neill: Thanks Carl. 1994 eh? Almost a quarter of a century ago. Simon Harris was probably about 5 years old then! Surely to god it’s fair for a persons viewpoint on taxation to change over such a massive period of time, particularly in a political context? I mean, Gerry Adams and Ian paisley were allowed to have a dramatic change of political outlook since 1994 weren’t they? Maybe I should dig out some Sinn Fein from quotes from 1994, to see how they would stack up in 2017??The Celtic tiger didn’t even exist in early 1994, never mind the recession after it. Homosexuality was only decriminalised a few months when enda made that statement. A few lifetimes ago in political terms.Pathetic that Ye are trying to dig up quotes like that to have a go at someone 25 years later. Grow up.
@The Risen: jammin – still waiting on the link to that billboard. Oh wait – It doesn’t exist! Lol, scarlet for ya!
@Pepper Brooks: Your not stupid you know he said itExcerpts from Dáil Debate, Wednesday 2nd February 1994Mr Enda Kenny TD“It is morally unjust and unfair to tax a person’s home, and by so doing grind him into the ground. Indeed in cases it could probably be unconstitutional”“It reminds me of a vampire tax in that it drives a stake through the heart of home ownership, through enthusiasm and initiative, and sucks the life blood of people who want to own their own home and better their position”
@Dot Com: great post.
@Pepper Brooks: You talk some s##t.
@Dot Com: you’re right. I’m not stupid. I know well he said it… IN BLOODY 1994!!!! Hardly relevant a quarter of a century later! Totally different era and different context, as you know quite well!
@Pepper Brooks: it is true your heart throb did really say that, try snd keep up…
@Pepper Brooks:
@Pepper Brooks: I asked you when he said that quote? Beautiful avoidance of the question as usual. When, what year exactly?- lol scarlet for ya…
@The Risen:No wonder he went on to create so many homeless then.
Sure why not giving these out like confetti
@Noel:Acting the eejit is now a university degree?
@Noel: True, confetti is dirt cheap, seemingly hon doctorates are too.
In other news the value of an NUIG degree has plummeted.
“In recognition of his tireless work doubling the number of children in persistent poverty, adding €30,000,000,000 to our national debt that our granadkids will still be paying, and firesaleing our housing stock to vulture funds while letting them off with miniscule tax bills, I would like to present enda kenny with this now completely discredited and worthless award.”
Absolutely disgusting
@Elizabeth Gregory: and Dr. Jim B knows feck all either. not much of an academic in my view but very savvy politically in NUiG.
Not one of my children will set foot in a university in Ireland after reading this. This man should be in jail along with Brian cowen and bill Clinton, instead they are elevated in status.Suspected it for years…. Our universities have been bought up and are ran by psychopaths.
@John O Connor: God help your kids, and good luck paying for them to go to university abroad. Never saw someone so quick to cut off his nose in spite of his face.  You have amazing principles!
@John O Connor:So because NUIG is giving Enda an honorary degree you are going to stop your children going to an Irish university and potentially damage their entire careers. Well, if your children take their intelligence (or lack of) from their Daddy then I don’t think you will ever need to enforce this.
@John O Connor: That’s a new level of thick right there.
@novalency: LOL great response to stupidity
@John O Connor: John, you are right. Bill Clinton repealed the Glass Steagall act imposed by FDR to prevent a repeat of 1929 Wall Street crash directly leading to WW2…and 8 years after Clinton repealed it….history repeated itself. Of course the idiots commenting here have no clue.
@John O Connor: has to be one of the stupidest comments I’ve ever seen on the journal and that’s saying something. Your poor kids.
Well done Enda.. Much deserved. He brought us out of some very difficult times.
@Seamus Balfe: Are you for real.A lying coward is all he is,(Not one cent will be paid to the bondholders).The EU couldn’t have handpicked  better lapdog.
@John Killeen:Genuine question, what point are you making re bond holders?
@Nick Allen: He got elected on the promise of burning them and then went back on his word.He also sabotaged the investigation into the bankers by not providing adequate resources to investigate them.
@Seamus Balfe: MERKLE
@Seamus Balfe:brought us out of some very difficult times Straight into even harder times.neither qualified or capable
@John Killeen: He was elected and its a democracy.  If you want to blame some thing blame capitalism.
@David Huston: “Straight into even harder times”, Maybe look at economic growth from 2011, to 2017. Those figures don’t lie.
John, was it not the EU who insisted on us not burning bondholders or allowing any bank go under? It’s possibly a sign of naivety at most that Irish politicians were human enough to want to burn the bondholders before election but it wasn’t until the whole financial crisis balloned and Greece happened that tiny Ireland was seen to be just a pawn and we had lost control. You can hardly blame Enda Kenny on that.
@Seamus Balfe: “I’ll end the scandal of hospital trollies”…………
@Do the Bort man: Look bort how many times must it be said, it is no good having a great economy if only a minority benefit. Will you open your eyes and see the state the country is in, homelessness, people on trolleys, 600,000 on waiting lists etc,etc,etc.Kenny and his cronies are responsible for this.
@Do the Bort man: Neither do the figures relating to homelessness, patients on trolleys, suicide rates etc., etc…
@Seamus Balfe: Could you be more precise when you say “us”.
@John Killeen: WAKEY WAKEY John. If he did what you wanted him to do we’d be in the same state or worse state than Greece. History will be deservingly kind to Enda. Ireland’s greatest Taoiseach by a long stretch. Bloody shinners and their burn the bondholders supporters would have driven us into the ground. He’s the poster boy of the EU cos he showed what true leadership in a recession looks like.
@Christy Pop: thank goodness for the EU
@David Huston: harder times??? I don’t see them.. Sure the boom is back!! Haven’t you heard?? Oh and Enda is 40+ years in politics.. Very qualified.
@Dáibh: I’m not a shinner but let’s face it  that Moran from Mayo would not do a debate amongst the other party leaders.
@Dáibh: in 100years he will still be remembered as a moron
@Do the Bort man:Leapraucaun and voodoo economics. Do not be fooled. Look at the real numbers for emigration, homelessness and child poverty. Still years to go to exit the recession, but with FG in power,zero chance of that actually happening.
So he worked as a school teacher briefly until daddy died and took over his seat in the Dail,That was 1975 yet he held onto his teaching job up to a few years ago while the pension was accruing.He couldn’t string a sentence together and had the son of a very well known comms clinic give him lessons on speaking.
Wonder will he finally visit Tuam as he hasnt done so since the babies discovery
Doctor Joke.
He was at the helm of the Irish Water fiasco and now we want to reward him. Disgraceful.
“You could do with a day’s work, I’d say “
“It is morally wrong, unjust and unfair to tax a persons home”- Enda Kenny, 1994. And what he do?
@Nollaig Lonergan: looked for some quotes from Gerry Adams from 1994. Couldn’t find them. He was banned from the airwaves back then for spending the previous 25 years murdering people in the name of the provisional IRA!
@Pepper Brooks:And Enda the hypocrite led the 2016 celebrations for the 1916 rising!
@Pepper Brooks:Adams was leading the way in the peace process at that stage in 1994.
Congratulations Enda , you saved our country. The great patriot of modern times.
@dec dunne: ya right-He saved himself and his 3 pensions-He was good at the crocodile tears
@dec dunne: “The great patriot of modern times”Funny sort of patriot that bows to german demands to have fiscal rules put into our constitution, no?
@The Risen: we are a tiny island off the coast of Europe. Too right he bows down to Germany. The way you go on like we’re a super power cop on would ya.
@David O’Toole: You got no pride in your own country David?
@David O’Toole: well said lad
@dec dunne: ur def not well pal
An honorary doctorate in discrediting the office of taoiseach. I don’t think irish politicians deserve such accolades full stop.
A direct insult against anyone who’s had to spend years of hard work to get a PhD. Any decent human being would respectfully decline an honorary degree out of respect for those who work hard for them. I’ve always thought you’d have to be a bit of a dick to accept one. Especially if you’ve already got a high profile job and salary and have absolutely no need for a degree other than to give yourself a pat on the back… for nothing
Ah well, I’ll remember this next time they come looking for ex student donations…
This is the Uni elite paying homage to the political elite. FG very happy and will throw a few sweeties to UCG when the time is right. It’s called cronyism. It is practised by many political parties in the republic of “OPPORTUNITY”.
He looked after himself and his buddies . Nice pension at what age ? When he leaves the dail he will also get the lotto winnings with it . ( lump sum ).what a country we live in . He has not been in the dail very often since Leo took his position. He doesn’t care or give a damn about the people only the highest flyers . So let all the rest of us shut up and pay the tax    /stealth taxes etc etc
Within 5 minute NUIG dropped 10 places in the World university Rankings
Who cares, one ignorant a@@hole,
He will be conferred by the 130 year old oak in the green area in recognition of his wooden traits
They have difficulty deciding the name. Doctor of Mayo; doctor of Tom foolery; doctor of FG; doctor of the long finger.
@Paul Coughlan: Doctor of the middle finger more likely.
In a statement it said it honours those “who, whether in their personal or representative capacities, through their energies, service and actions, have contributed significantly to public life”.So why honour this parasite?
@Kerry Blake: yeah, a chancer with a HDiP who’ d say whatever to gain power and money plummeted to Phd status based on zero.
Leo Varadkar is on a YouTube video saying….not 1 red cent to the banks. This line got Enda elected in 2011 cause we as fools believed them. They all lied.
Why don’t they give him the freedom of of the country . He’s had everything else he could grab
@sean nihill: ha!
@sean nihill: except THE SAM
Omg. my alma mater is UCG and er..  jim browne is now in charge.. hmm. go back 2 1908 policy of conferring based upon real achievement. I guess business policy has taken over from acadamic achievement.
Worry not my friends…..Muirthiertach gave an honorary degree to the guy who makes the panninis some years back…..wired to a parallel universe these academics..
A mediocre Taoiseach , who accidentally rose through the ranksHistory will view him as an example of how the village idiot can emerge  .
@Jimmy jones: I think people reading your comment will see who the real village idiot is.
@Dáibh: Yeah. You. You Endabot. He used short term solutions for long term problems. Which is why so many people commenting have issues with him receiving a doctorate.
Leave Enda alone. He probably averaged 100k per year for 40 years in Dail Eireann and expenses to cover the house/appt in dublin. Plus a pension we can all be jealous of.
isn’t our old “tea shake” looking well
Doctor Who.
And what lovely curtains they are wearing as well?Anyone else feel that there is too much pals of pal stuff in this brown envelope land?
Man boobs in the 2nd pic.    What an ass hole he still is.
@bings: stop talking about yourself
@bings: Shelia Kenny.
Reacting to an in my view incorrect post on hoteliers. the reduced vat rate is good. i was in holland many times on business during the last 6 months. what they call “horeca” ie. hotels restauraunts etc is all on 6% vat!!!! But, they pay their workers a higher rate too….the system works well.
These ‘awards ‘ are handed out like smarties by third rate Irish institutions to make themselves feel important.He looks like a right prat in the photo.
Disgraceful
He makes me sick, even looking at him.
@Peter Kelly: Funny if he was on the cover of Playboy next lol.
Still claiming TD’s salary while working outside the country?
people here criticising enda are the same people who criticised all the politicians before him and will criticise all the politician’s after him. Government is always the bad guys. Well,we live in a democracy and these guys are here because we voted for them as a country…..if ya don’t like it theres plenty of planes and boats leaving everyday…..off ya go.
@Derek Power: Fg lost a lot of votes in the last election because they lied to the people about not bailing out banks. then when the people voted for them they did a 180deg turn and increased tax left right and center to pay these banks off. Fg increased rents while giving out about high rents by introducing 4 new taxes on rental income 1) usc 2) prsi 3) 25% reduction from 100% to 75%  on mortgage interest relief on rental property 4) local property tax LPT. FG must think we are complete idiots but we are not.
@gregory: that’s fair enough…I’m not defending them. If FF were running the country people’s opinion would be the same 12 months down the line.seems like a national pass time to moan about whoever is in power at the time. Same all over the world I suppose.
NUIG are a disgraceful gang of brown nosing A -licks.I had considered doing an on line Irish degree with them,costing 3 grand,but will now spend that elsewhere. I would be ashamed to hold any qualification this University would hand out.
I’ve a masters from nui… Not galway but by association it’s down graded mine… Can I get my money back please… I paid cash… Long before they were free… I probably need indemnity on my DBA now after this.
It seems de riguer in this country to dole out doctorates to these buffoons after a period as leader.I recall Reynolds decked out in a robe and mortarboard before embarking on a series of lectures in the States.I ask you,who in the name of Jaysus wants to hear,let alone pay for the privilege of listening to these morons.I see Kenny is now being paid 22k a throw for an after dinner speech,as was that doyen of buffoons,Ahern when he retired.Apart from which of course these speeches,these gems of wisdom,are written and prepared by their minions in the civil service.These idiots themselves have no input other than mouthing the words before them.
@Pepper Brooks:Pepper Brooks14hours ago@The Risen: I asked you when he said that quote? Beautiful avoidance of the question as usual. When, what year exactly?- lol scarlet for ya…
Ha ha ha ha  …  FFS but its not funny its a disgrace.Over 40 years as a politician and what did he achieve, what great things did he do for Ireland etc.. F all in my opinion  .. Double jobbing and getting paid for it  up till 2010 until he became Taoiseach as realized it would look to good. First thing he did in power was to break the pay rules for his friend and advisor.. Soon his nest of vipers, I mean advisor team where costing the tax payer over 1 million a year.  This disgrace and traitor to Ireland and its people changed his colors more than a chameleon ..Remember his  “Its morally unjust and unfair to tax a persons home “, ” Contract with the People” , “I will sack the wasters of Tax Payers Money” ” The 5 point plan” ” Free GP’s”  (for various ages, depending on who he was talking to and of course) ” I’m worth it ” and lest not forget all the the different things he threatened would happen if people didn’t pay Irish Water, from increasing tax, to cutting of supply to people..Over 40 years in Politics and this is his Legacy  ..Property TaxIrish Water.Huge PensionYeah he is a great man indeed  ..  yeah great at feathering his own next
+ Back to Education Allowance and University Grant.
Ireland’s debt to gdp ratio, as gifted to the country by Fianna Fáil, has gone from 120% to 74% under Fine Gael.Buy that man a pint – no, buy him two pints. That’s the way he rolls. huah!
@alphanautica: gdp isn’t really relevant in Ireland’s case. We have the third highest debt per capital in the world.
A tad desperate from NUIG
@Stephen:Ends, outstanding in his field? like a scarecrow more like.
@Christy Nolan: scarecrows are more useful!
@Stephen: Dr Strangelove!
@Jarlath Murphy: Dr. Fu(kstick..
Who’s presenting it?Angela Merkel, for obedience to German rule and enslavement of your people.Three cheersHail KennyHail KennyHail Kenny.For hes a jolly good German, for hes a jolly good German, for he’s a jolly good German and so say all of us.
This devalues the worth of honorary and academic Doctorates.It’s a shrewd strategic move, so as to leverage funding support.Future Taoisigh, such as Varadkar,  will stay on the right side of Universities in the hope of picking up an honorary Doctorate or 2.Ex Taoiseach Brian Cowan has picked up a Doctorate.
@Fiona deFreyne: Honorary doctorates  from Unis never really had any value. They’re usually just given out to those who pal up to Universities or to those who are liked by whoever happens to be in charge of the selection committee at any particular time.
@Malachi: Kenny may have been inept but Cowen (like his FF crony before him Ahearn) was despicably corrupt and a disgusting liar and fraud. His bolshy, arrogant, horrible lie in front of his country of ‘not discussing Anglo affairs while playing golf with Seany Fitzpatrick’ was a slight on the intelligence of the Irish people and rotten in the extreme.
@Fiona deFreyne: I think Barack Obama did something similar
@TheBluffmaster2: It just shows the utter shite we put up with on a political level. And we just keep voting them in.
is this where we’ve arrived God help us
Will Dr Kenny  be available  to work in A  Edepartment  in  G U H   ??
Who?
Worthless both the Doctorate and the recipient .
He will be remembered as the greatest bluffer the country has ever seen lol ” it’s a great little country to do business” it is if your apple lol
no worries there, he’ll probably get lost on the way to collect it, fecken eejit !
FFS
Predictable responses on here. Congratulations Enda. I never voted for you but you did your best with the little you had and steered the ship through some dark times. Nothing he did was ever going to be popular with the masses due to the mess he inherited from the Fianna Fáilure. There. I said it.
@Tom Tom: lol if you never voted for him, well who the f&&k did you vote for because this is pretty much as far to the right you can go unless your a nazi lol come on now Tom Tom tell the truth you did vote for him
@Tom Tom: I will give him credit for telling the church to go f themselves but thats it.More than that pandering b€€€€rd Cosgrave did, he was balls deep in the Catholic church and their abuse.
@Tom Tom: Tom Tom fg have been inheriting ff mess and vice versa for nearly 100 years now. Did you not know its all part of the game. The 2 of them are no different.
@Derek Poutch: Nevertheless, history will be kind to Enda…
@Tom Tom: that’s because we will all be dead and gone and the elites will rewrite the history books to make it kind to their type lol
@Tom Tom: you are joking!
Another award made into trash by the establishment.
This should be popular…
Which one is worse Kenny or Biffo.
@UilickMcGee: And now we are blessed with a shiny new one – Leo FTW !!! What a guy !!!
Ohh my God!!… I’m still on this bloody island!
They  printed on jax roll now?
@Dermot Mc: I think one of those should be presented to Bertie the Anorak.
So now you can earn a doctorate for being a yes man and doing nothing of note. Sign me up.
The West’s Asleep!
DID ENDA KENNY GET THE 5 EURO RISE IN THE PENSION FROM THE BUDGET? ? ?
People work hard to earn a doctorate enda earned a fortune by not working.
Toss pot
I feel sick.
Why?
@Brianán McBride: for:Being a clown.taking it up the ar$e from angela.His 5 point plan.His contract for Government.Being a spoofer.His unwillingness to debate with vincent browne.His unwillingness to answer any Dail questions.All the hospitals which he closed.etc. etc.
Is he still around the Pratt
Apparently on his way to the podium he met a man with two Professorships in each hand  and bundles of Post Grads hanging out of his wallet, who wanted to thank him personally for having the foresight, for building the Taj Mahal and being the first man to walk on the moon!“That’s one small step for Enda Kenny, but fortunately a huge leap fr the rest of humanity!”He stated totally unabashed!
Kenny should still be Taoiseach
@Eamon:I will give you a green thumb for bravery.
@Eamon: He made an art of low achievement. Imagine if for that period we had an individual of drive and vision and ability who did more than just worry about covering up his ineptitude and hanging onto his job.
@Eamon: hahahaha
If only we could pay his multiple pensions in monopoly money.
Will ya’s give it up, He was Taoiseach of this Country for over 6 years, no matter what politics we belong to we cannot begrudge this to him.
@Eugene Comaskey: Troll comment?
@Eugene Comaskey: you FG troll, try and be a bit more subtle
As a Galway person, I really DO think this is an honor too far ! A failed leader who never won an election oughtright and along with Noonan msde sure that the little person paid for & are still paying for the Corupt, greed, and incompetent Arogant Bankers  and (Now back in business) Bankcrupt developers and bondholders. What a failure (except for looking after himself and his lot) Kenny was and still is !?
I would like to confere on Edna a kick up the hole.
@Derek Poutch: LOL!
puppet , puppets on a string
Clearly just wants to be a doctor like Dr V.
Recognition for more than 40 years as a legislator who offered not one piece of legislation to tar the image of a true Irish politician. He should be awarded the keys of the bog below Belmullet to boot.
These two dinosaur parties have ruined our country together with their owner’s in Bank’s and big business have passed there gambling debts on to us and our future generations…
Sooo a village is missing it’s Doctor now???
Can’t believe people in this country still refer to FF as a different party to FG ???   Wake up people, they are of one and have been for quite a few years…. it’s our media who tell us that we have a choice !!
Why oh why would you honor this gombeen in any way,
Why?Is there any reason he’s to be handed a doctorate? Did he do something????Absolute waste of money handing out sweetie jar doctorates. Undeserved as no reason to give to him. He was doing a job(only reasonable job) and was being paid for it so why is he getting this ridiculous bit of paper for doing nothing. Typical waste of money
This idiot gets a doctorite for ruinning this country
Remembered for “nearly bringing peace”.  So he didn’t, that’s not an achievement.  I’m sure he was a good man to many, but he put his religious beliefs and the church before the needs of the country.
@Derrick McGrath: or you could say he realised his beliefs were not everybody’s and he made an attempt to legalise contraception, even tho he himself was personally opposed. He was one of the last to vote in the Dail that day, so as not to unduly influence others.
@Dermot Lane: What are you, his biographer?
@Arnold Lane: The cheek of presenting an informed opinion on these forums. For shame.
@Derrick McGrath: People who lived through the 70′S generally have a different view of that era despite the hardships in different parts of the country. Agriculture and the fishing industry was beginning to boom by the end of that decade and many of the cultural influences of a confident nation began to come into their own on an international stage . It must appear like a downtrodden nation to the eyes of people who now cast the Catholic Church as a villain and indeed it does deserve a lot of criticism however that perspective is unfair as it is on Cosgrave.  The deadpan demeanor of that leader would now be out of place in the megawatt social media of today but at that time it was appropriate even if it was gently mocked -https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wzu1ToAxdFkR.I.P Mr Cosgrave
@Dermot Lane: most people won’t appreciate your researched and balanced comment on this forum
Brian Cowan looking the picture of wellness.
@Brian Farrell: cmon. Give us a break. He’s on s big pension.
@Paul Coughlan: he looks like he’s on an s big bender.
Listening on the radio this week to the many politicians who knew him he comes across as having been an absolute gentleman but as a teenager in the early 70′s I have clear memories of his election posters around Dunlaoghaire with his stern face with a stubby little mustache staring down at me and thinking he looked a bit like you know who : (
@Brian MacCarthaigh: Freddie Mercury?
@lavbeer: how did you guess?
@Brian MacCarthaigh: Willie O’Dea?
@Brian MacCarthaigh: maybe if Leo grew a moustache he’d look like Freddie. Don’t insult one of the greatest performers
@lavbeer:
He will be remembered by people who suffered from him not representing them.
Enda, Bertie and Brian all looking well fed the pension must be agreeing with them…..
May he Rest In Peace, but I hope we never see a leader of his kind in a progressive outlooking country ever again.
@Casper: “I hope we never see a leader of his kind in a progressive outlooking country ever again”.I totally disagree with you. The ‘Celtic Tiger’ and the subsequent crash it caused would not have been allowed under his leadership in my opinion.
@John Hagin Meade: we would never have had a Celtic tiger under his leadership
@John Hagin Meade: wake up. His government introduced additional taxes like all the others. Not a good legacy
@John Hagin Meade: how so ????
@Karen Murphy Fehily:“how so ????”He always put the people and country first so he would have ensured that the continuous rise in property prices would be resisted in whatever way needed. Also his government would continue the policy of building sufficient social housing thereby stemming the relentless ‘bubble’ from forming. The FG of then was a totally different party to the sham of a FG we have now. I was always a FG voter in the past but alas no more.
@John Hagin Meade: isn’t this the kind of policy SF are fighting for I am sure they would love your vote in the next election.
@Casper: “Isn’t this the kind of policy SF are fighting”.That’s why SF will be getting a high placing on my next GE ballot paper.
Looks from the picture here as if the “ordinary” people were kept outside the church.  Can’t have them mixing with the elite.
@Brendan Keegan: ot doesnt look loke thst at all. A lot of people wait outside till the remains go in,then follow.
@Brendan Keegan: This is the sort of horseshite comment that has these comment sections ruined. My jaysis.
@Dermot Lane: REALLY are you for real
RIP but RTE are a total disgrace.http://www.dannymorrison.com/water-is-too-good-for-them-sean-orourke-rte/
@Midland Celt: yes shows him up for what he was. I wouldnt want a leader like him.
@Nash: RTE west brits. No representation of the people of Ireland.
@phil: p##ck
Despite all their money, we must have the ugliest bunch of politicians in the world. It probably wouldn’t be as bad if you had a good-looking bunch riding ya!!
@Paul Culligan: lol it would certainly ease the burden
Polling the electorate.
@Paul Culligan: what about Regina. Surely you love her looks.
@Paul Culligan: a come now Leo is looking very cool and smart in his new role.  With his height and sallow skin he stands out above the rest. Credit where credits due.
It may have been a partial state funeral but it would appear the ecclesiactics were out in strength….always a worrying sight…
It looked like a state funeral to me.
Does that buffoon Harris only have one suit and tie to his name !
40 years pension. did he really need it at his age?
Does Bertie’s pension get paid into a bank account…has he got a bank account ??? for years he managed without one !!!
@Michael Mcshane:
I was at the funeral, it was very dignified. They allowed us local peasants in to see it.
He was a great Leader, and to those who say he put his religious beliefs first before his country, Don’t you mean he put God first ?
“I can’t trust a man who doesn’t drink, because a man who doesn’t drink doesn’t trust himself.”
@stephen kavanagh:There’s nothing as pure as a reformed whoore.
@stephen kavanagh: I love  the gaming machines with flashy  lights in the bookies   can i be trusted..
@stephen kavanagh: correct Stephen! Absolutely!
@stephen kavanagh: bull shit.
More self indulgent drivel to rehabilitate the credibility of the “Man from Rio”The electorate will cast their own judgement soon enough!
@Jarlath Murphy: In fairness, Lord Ross will once again top the poll.
@Jarlath Murphy: my god you’re arrogant. Not everything is about you. And a classic line at the end which amounts to “people will vote in a democracy “
@Jarlath Murphy: Men from Rio there were 2 but Kevin Mallon seems to have vanished just like Pat Hickey.
I’m delighted Edna made him laugh as do we the taxpaying eejit’s who fund him in his Ministerial role. Wasn’t it soooo easy for him as both stockbroker / senator roles to give up drink.  He saw the gravy train pulling up. He’s got many many options to get around……public transport and expenses not to have to worry about drink driving. Gawd he makes my blood boil and before anyone says I agree with drink driving please take note it’s not the person with two pints in a country pub driving home who kills, it’s the fools who have six or seven and then speed mostly young on their way from the pub to a late nite somewhere. But sure it’s alright because he doesn’t drink nor depend on a simple car to get around.
@Mary Murphy: I’m afraid the statistics might be against you there Mary. Most road deaths are actually in rural/country areas, and young folk nowadays, on average, don’t drink and drive half as much as their parents did.
@Kieran Magennis: Most road deaths are in Donegal and it’s not rushing to mass the sped is for
@Mary Murphy stats please to your incoherent statement
@Mary Murphy: what a idiotic statement. To clarify, you say if he was an alcoholic it was easier to fight it cause he was rich? I dont know if you’re a fake account but you certainly are a stupid one
@Kieran Magennis: you obviously missed the report earlier this week that said young people are drinking and driving in greater numbers
@Ian James Burgess: Increasing yes, but still much lower than for my generation..
Shane Ross,I used to respect him for his understanding of what happened in the crash here never let the establishment get away with anything!But now he has lost those values since he has got into bed with the rest of the “Alliance”.Stepaside Garda Station reopening is a joke.Him and John Halligan have shown their hand.New Politics my Bollox
A very honest response, can’t blame him for that
Not sure why but he has become a hate figure for the media…..They all echo the various negative  stories about him with great realise
@John003: It is because he was so vocal as a journalist and in opposition. It was all populist nosnense but he had a following. Then he got into power and was shown up for his bluster as the weakest and most publicity hungry politician we have seen in my generation.
@Paul P O’Sullivan: exactly, hes changed nothing.
@Paul P O’Sullivan: so you want a stubborn, dont take no shit from amyone ,al capone politician? Do you think a politician should have their mind set on every issue and never change?
Every now and then I thought he spoke sense as a journo, now he’s shown up for what he is, opinionated fool who’s got little to no knowledge of what he should do. The guy is a catastrophe waiting to happen, opinions on everything yet knowledge in nothing. Having said that, it’s practically every government ever, it’s just role seems to span from a to z… Who gave that remit. He’s like the Ray D’Arcy of the government!
And now Ross is taking out his personal guilt on the general public, like a real Puritan! As if everyone was as susceptible to such habits as he is!
30 years ago I think everyone drove while over the limit!
Off the drink? What about the time he went on a bender and ended up in rio for no logical reason.
He’s a spoofer and it’s as simple as that
Okay, but you’re not in your thirties any more sp could you please start workimg on the rural transport crisis
Makes Paul Murphy appear sane….
The poor me syndrome by the worst minister ever – I call him the minister for nothing. Bonding with FG. Not needed for him. He was already established as a blueshirt with his mid Atlantic accent.
No harm not drinking  but don’t like puritanical drink driving laws making criminals of people – go after the drinks companies not the people. Judicial appointments Bill seems to be a crock too – lay people committees ( appointed by the Government) do the picking and Government still gets final approval- as far as I can see. Used to like SR but ego seems to be taking over.
He clearly wasn’t drinking enough as he still went into politics.
Well done for privatization of our transport to another country sending more money out of our economy an into another’s. Funny tat its his own country he gave it to wa×nker
Dutch? We’d be better off with Dutch from Predator than you
Hi ShaneJust because you didn’t go for treatment doesn’t mean your not an alcoholic.If your in your 30′s and your drinking is affecting all aspects of your life I’m pretty sure your an alcoholic
The can of Dutch wasn’t from some Luas construction worker (harsh claim!). It was from some lads having the craic.Proof:https://m.facebook.com/events/137267053514391?view=permalink&id=138914670016296
This goon is making headlines yet will do f*ck all for drink driving. Enforcement is the best way to reduce drink driving. More effective than sentencing as a deterrent. But it costs money. Just like the 19000 people waiting for a camera procedure, money  not invested is causing deaths. But what do we see plastered over the news???? , Dublin bus have lost some routes….Who gives a f*ck ? I’m no party gombeen but this country needs a HUGE swing to the left.
@Paul Mc Nulty: I’m aware that you might find a contradiction there.Allow me to clarify. I don’t mean who gives a f#ck exclusively, rather there are many issues far more in need of giving a f#ck to.
What an utter knobhead ……
Another turn coat , no thanks
He’s clarified it, he doesn’t drink- do we have to bang on about it?
He’s such a hypocrite it irritates me. All the rules around drunk driving he’s brought in. Despise him
@Breno Rodgers: He irritates me a bit too Breno, but hard to justify calling him a hypocrite when he’s reformed from what he volunteered he did that long ago?
@Kieran Magennis: It’s very easy for him to reform. He got on the gravy train thirty years ago and he’s finally hit his reward. It’s been very worthwhile for him to give up drink. But he doesn’t have a clue about country living and doesn’t care. And I’m living in Dublin so I can only imagine the death he’s giving to country living jobs and social life in the ass hole of nowhere with his jumped up clueless half glass of beer idea
@Mary Murphy: ah the clueless “they dont get my problems”!Which is staggering since your post tries to illuminate rural issues but you say you live in dublin and can only “imagine ” what they go through. You’re a moron
I knew this guy was a reformed drunk. Couldn’t get enough and now he want to punish everybody else who was not ad stupid as him. Of course he had the money to throw around three decades ago. He is tight -it damaged his brain and made him act like the clown he is now.
If he doesn’t drink why is he holding a can, and of all alcoholic beverages why would he chose dutch gold?
@Siobhán Kavanagh:https://m.facebook.com/events/137267053514391?view=permalink&id=138914670016296
Now your just a waste of space .. time for a drink
@James Reilly: Hic! Hic! zzzzzzzzzzz!
@Paul Tao: thanks for the link, it puts it in another light
He appears to be suffering from dry drunk syndrome, perhaps he should get treatment!
Dont forget who ross is a force for the top 1% nationally, while hiding behind his constituents short term interests. Every time I see ross the so called ‘transport minister’ its to prop up his and healy reas own ego at the expense of everyone else, while propping up this government’s housing crisis, public services crisis, privatisation of the transport sector, privatisation of our water the bin charges gouging the private bank debt bailouts the free market mantra on health housing and education. The independent Alliance has alot to answer for in this government who will vote for them now?
I’m sure Enda Kenny felt more positive about finding a solution to the border issue.That was months ago though. Varadkar is rightly worried about the situation now, we are weeks into negotiations and nobody still seems to know what the British Governments position on Brexit is.
@Tweety McTweeter: Heard this absolute spoofer Jones splutter his way through the interview this morning.Cited the US/Canada border as something to emulate – despite the fact that 1) they have a free trade agreement and 2) it is a hard border with passport checks.He was utterly clueless and offered no further detail which is exactly the point Varadkar was making.UK is sleepwalking into disaster, led by rabbit-in-headlights leaders.
@Tweety McTweeter: Enda Kenny was a bullshitter, a lying, self-serving FG hack.
@Brinster:Varadkar is a spoofer. His staff, when che was Health Minister, will vouch for that.
@Christy Nolan:“His staff, when che was Health Minister, will vouch for that.”Link please.
@Tweety McTweeter: So this clown Jones wants Ireland to do the heavy lifting because the Brits have no idea what they’re doing. It’s their Brexit so they can Feck off.
@Brinster:http://www.thejournal.ie/varadkar-hospitals-2590842-Feb2016/‘In an interview in the Sunday Independent, Varadkar said: “What can happen in some hospitals is sometimes, when they have more beds and more resources, that’s what kind of slows it down.”’All hat, no cattle.
@The Risen: brexit is going to happen, we need to sort things out with our friends in the UK. The toxic EU is complicating  the situation.
@Danny foley: Correct. Theres a story in the Irish Times about Varadkar ordering a halt to investigating solutions to Brexit. Looks like his plan is to allow us to be used as a stick to beat the British with, regardless of the consequences for ordinary folk.
@The Risen: why should we help, it’s their Brexit, we’re staying, it’s their border, we don’t want one, and they’re clueless about what they want from every aspect of Brexit.
@Boganity: What a childish and myopic comment. It’s not ‘their’ Brexit, it is the Brexit of everyone who will be severely impacted by no proper solutions being found, which includes here in Ireland. And that will only come through bilateral agreements and measures being agreed and implemented.
@The Risen: There in lays the problem. They have no idea what they want to agree to. They are so busy infighting that are not giving a solution any thought.
@The Risen: there’s no way Leo Varadkar regrets his comments   Otherwise he would not have repeated his comments in Belfast. He is absolutely right. Anyway Ireland has a veto over whatever Britain comes up with. Varadkar is in a strong position.
@P C: ‘ Varadkar is in a strong position.’LOL!
@The Risen: so having a veto is not a strong position??? Please explain.
@The Risen: you and I had no say in it so it can’t be OUR Brexit.
@The Risen: and any debate that uses derogatory terms such as “childish” and “myopic” is an indicator of either, the lack of a valid argument, or an inability to articulate a valid argument.
@The Risen:I asked for a link backing up the invented assertion that HSE staff claimed Varadkar was a spoofer.Your link provided absolutely zero quotes from any HSE staff backing that ridiculous claim (made by Christy Nolan).Why provide a completely irrelevant link?Is it because no such back up exists?To use your phrase – your link was all hat not cattle.
@Brinster: don’t waste your time with the Risen aka Jammin. A complete spoofer and shinner has been.
@Gus Sheridan: Yes,and you forgot to mention a European lap dog who loved the odd pat on the head for  liking his masters boots.
@The Risen: When did the “ordinary Irish folk” ever matter to the EU?
@Billy McNamara: The EU is not about individual states but the Union as a whole. One may as well ask the same question about “ordinary Spanish folk” or “ordinary Czech folk”  just as the Federal US government is about it’s whole. Worrying about each individual populace is the job of individual governments.
@The Risen:Don’t worry lads, far left loonies “The Risen” and “Danny Foley” are in agreement with each other. We can all rest easy now.
@Danny foley: Our “friends” can go sort it out themselves. They made their bed and they can lie in it.
Why would he regret his statement when the whole Country was agreeing with him?
@Alan Scott: the “whole country”? I suggest you may be wrong there.
@Paul Fahey:Anyone with any pride in their country is agreeing with him.
@Brinster: what a pathetic statement, seriously you are better than that.
@Paul Fahey:Yeah – you’re right. Was petty and inaccurate. I’ll ask for deletion.Apologies Paul.
@Paul Fahey: you always get a couple of gobsh*tes so apart from them yes it’s the whole country
@Boganity: So now you’re speaking for the UK AND Ireland?
@The Risen: I only speak for myself and common sense. Ireland has a capable leader so he can speak on its behalf. The UK’s leaders are divided and without direction so unfortunately the UK has no one to speak for it.
@Brinster: You should mad comment
@Brinster: I have pride in my coutry but not in the idiotic govt we have had ths past few years who are only interested in looking good not in how the country is run or how the people as a whole are doing….
Heaven forbid that the petulent Irish should get in the way of the British and their glorious Brexit. Let them propose their technological solution, and lets see the Irish response backed by the EU26.
@Fred Jensen: it actually depresses me that we already have a British post Brexit minister. That’s how long this shit has been going on and still the British don’t know what they want. 3% of Irish businesses have a plan for Brexit and I’d say the rest are baffled by what is going to happen with Brexit. The British want it all but don’t want to compromise!!! I’d say Leo said that to focus them and he’s right! Why should we come up with solutions to something they voted for and we don’t want!!?
@Deborah Behan: oh yeah, a comment by Leo Varadkar is what is going to do it.
Paddy needs to know his place.Adult countries are having a Brexit and the little guy should keep quiet.
@alphanautica: Yep, and leo is back in his box ,
Leo has balls, Enda had none, that’s the difference. All this uncertainty over Brexit has us all on edge – Why should we, or the people of NI, suffer at the whim of the English?  Sort out your own mess!
@Vic’s Burd: English?
@Vic’s Burd: It seems that Mr Kenny operated  on the assumption that politicians are reasonable and quiet diplomacy is better than megaphone politics but all bets are off here and must be seen to be off. Raising the standard of discussion is the only avenue available to distance ourselves from the nightmare of conservative/labour ideologies until some common sense prevails in our close neighbours.
@Frank Cooney: @Paul Fahey We COULD say Britain, and forget the fact that the people of Scotland and NI voted to stay in the EU. Maybe THIS is what he means?
@Paul Fahey: Yes English. Scots and NI voted to remain.
@Vic’s Burd: Was going to say just that, Kenny had no balls. It cost us when he refused to stand up on the issue of bond holders. The only time he showed fight was when he criticised the church. Hardly the bravest stand. At least Varadkar is showing some fight – although whether it is diplomatically astute is another question.
@Paul Fahey: The English and Welsh are the only two to have voted for Brexit…..
Oh, the hypocrisy around here is something else.Article after article about the 6 counties, and the comments section is filled with people going on about how it’s part of the UK and ‘nothing to do with us’, except for articles about Brexit, when all of a sudden the 6 counties is spoken about as a separate entity due to the result of a vote which had nothing to do with it parting from the UK.
@Brinster:sorry to burst your bubble but the people of britain voted to leave the uk not just the “english” or are you suggesting that if the people of say donegal decided they wanted to leave the EU that would be allright ????
I am sick of hearing about Brexit, magic beans and pie in the sky. The Brits haven’t a clue and don’t know how to apply the brakes to their runnaway train…..
@Chris Kirk: plus they’re looking back at where the train has been, not where it’s going
@Chris Kirk:Correct.  The dogs in the street know there isn’t going to be a Brexit. No effort whatsoever being made, which is a sensible idea (crafty, mind you).
@Boganity:No trains in border counties !
@Catherine Mc: hmmm I wish I knew what that  means, or it’s relevance.
@Catherine Mc: your comment ” looking back at trains….” point being, Irish government doesn’t give a fiddlers about border counties and never has.
@Catherine Mc: let me introduce you to my friend Blind Freddy, if he can see something and you can’t you have an issue. What he can see is that since the U.K. recently came to the realization that it needs a transition period beyond March 2019 the balance of power in the Brexit talks had shifted to Ireland. This is because an extension of the Brexit deadline triggered by article 50 requires unanimous agreement from all member states. This gives Ireland, or more specifically Leo, the power to veto. So if the British want a border between north and south they ain’t getting one unless he agrees to whatever they propose.
@Boganity:Fair enough
The headline is misleading. Jones never “claimed” Varadkar “regretted” his statement re the border. What he actually said is he THOUGHT Varadkar MIGHT regret his statement. The is a world of difference between the two.
@Riocard Ó Tiarnaigh: I agree, that is a brutal headline.
@Eric Gaffney: it’s the Journal murdering the English language in their headlines is what they do, and they do do it well.
@Boganity: if it wasn’t for the comments section , a marvellous source of entertainment on a daily basis, the Journal would be dead by now based on it’s journalism and copy cat news. I get the impression it is just a bunch of people watching tv or reading news on the net and dropping the stories into the Journal. The odd ” do you agree that potatoes are too expensive ” poll has great originality though !
@Boganity: they don’t murder the language at all. They use it to change the message the headline should give. Be honest people come here for the commenters and the debate not the journalism.
Thank God he is fighting hard for “Ireland Inc”
@Brian O Reilly: Do I detect a note of sarcasm, or did you misspell ‘Europe inc.’?
“When pressed on what these solutions could be, Jones referenced the border between the US and Canada, and Norway and Sweden.Jones did, however, rule out similar posts at the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland.”So he referenced a potential solution, only to then rule that solution out? And what is a “technological solution” anyway? Are they going to put up a firewall now?? More bluster from the Brexiteers, with no clue of what they’re at. Thankfully there’s nobody here angling for an Irish version…
@Alan Roddy: they have not a single clue between them what it is they want from Brexit, they’re like a rabbit in the headlights
@Boganity: When the English voted for Brexit the vast majority of those that voted to leave had little or zero idea of the consequences. And it is the internal politics of the Conservative Party that is blocking the chance of giving the population a chance to change their minds. Now that they are staring into the abyss and realizing that the Leave Campaign were lying through their teeth, with a Government that have no clue what to do or even what their negotiating is going to be. A new referendum would swing heavily to remain.
@Mick Jordan: I agree, except on the possibility of another referendum. The tories have a history of sending the armed forces onto the streets to kill their own citizens rather than admit they where wrong.
Britain should do the honourable thing and do a Brexit from the North.
@Shane Molloy: UK Brexiting from the North is not what the DUP have in mind!https://eurofree3.wordpress.com/2017/08/06/the-dups-game-plan-for-northern-ireland/
@Shane Molloy: British voted    Brexit  and I am delighted they had the guts to do it . Ireland fought for freedom and give it away to Europe.
Presumably the French will no longer be required to hold immigrants in Calais and can allow them easy passage back out of the EU over the English Channel?
@alphanautica: the reverse looks more likely. Why would UK just open the floodgates to illegal immigrants from the EU?
@alphanautica: Imagine the French (like Libya) smuggling migrants onto boats and sending them out over the channel so that the Brits have to take them in.
@Joseph Siddall:Poor Joseph, you have no idea of the compromises that are coming due to British weakness.
@Fred Jensen: You seem to have been taken in by Fintan O’Toole’s lazy journalism.
@Fred Jensen: “Poor Joseph, you have no idea of the compromises that are coming due to British weakness.”And you do?Off ya go…….
@The Risen: The simple reality is if they want any form of “Soft Brexit” then they are going to have to give way on things like Freedom of Movement and the Customs Union. They are just not up for negotiation on the EU side. Because then the EU would have to re-negotiate  it’s deals with Norway, Switzerland etc . So what it is increasingly looking like is the hardest of hard Brexits. With the British having to place a Hard Border with us which in turn will cripple the Norths economy. Which will also get the double whammy of losing all the EU subsidies it gets. The English are complaining now about the Public money going to Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland, they haven felt anything like the sharing they are in for after Brexit.
No border should be put in place on this Island of Ireland full stop.Varadker is spot on and Kenny was telling the imperialist brutes what they wanted to hear.They are going to bring conflict back to our country if we allow them to erect a border.I hope Varadker stands his ground.
@gerry fallon: you are aware that the British have been quite clear they do not want a border in NI and if there is one it will be because the EU demand one. So I take it the “imperialist brutes” are the EU?
@Paul Fahey: So how would the British control immigration without a border? Be it land or sea they need more than the EU surely? In or out of customs union? Current indicators are out. The EU awaits the strategy papers from them
@lavbeer: Varadkar was referring to a customs border. However, we are two relatively small islands, where there are already checks and controls between the two and I cannot see there being any significant difference, but that is for the politicians to address. I assume you are suggesting that migrants may use the north as a gateway to the other parts of Britain? If this proves to be the case then I am quite sure there would have to be a more restrictive regime in place, but the current checks at ports seem to work rather well. EU migrants would have no automatic right to work in the U.K. anymore and non EU migrants would still face the same issue getting into Britain or Ireland. I really don’t see it as a big issue, a hard customs border would be far more damaging to both countries.
@Paul Fahey: your good at bending the facts: the Brexit was all about keeping dem foreigners out so it’s the Brits alone who want a border.
@Boganity: If the UK votes based on ‘keeping the foreigners out’ how come UKIP got decimated?There were many reasons for people voting Brexit, and you aren’t in the mind of every single voter in the UK.
@The Risen: The majority of those that voted Leave had no clue as to the consequences of what it actually meant. Given a second vote now would see a very different outcome.
@The Risen: the Brexit referendum had a core policy of xenophobia on the leave side and as the leave side carried the day the Brexiteers and UKIP where successful. So I’m unaware of the referendum you’re referring to where they were decimated. Unless you’re referring to the recent general election where all the Brexit parties where decimated by the voters waiting for them with the proverbial baseball bats
@Paul Fahey: yes Paul I was talking about birders other than customs. It does seem easier to secure the border at the air and sea ports rather than between RoI and NI but I guess the conservatives would need to explain that. But it’s clear the British have no coherent clear message of what they want let alone what they will end up with. But publicly Leo not taking ownership and forcing them to get their house in order is the right. But we are pawns here with both major players
@Mick Jordan: but nothing much has changed as yet. A few jobs on the way out. The passport queues in the holiday islands is the biggest concern
@lavbeer: That’s because they aren’t out in the cold yet. But one just has to look at how far Sterling has fallen so far and continues to fall. Which in turn makes imports (of which food being one of their biggest) that much more expensive. When you add on new taxes combined with an even weaker Pound after Brexit it will drive up inflation, thus leading to higher wage demands which in turn add to the upward trend of inflation. And all their exports into the EU will also become more expensive due to EU import taxes thus making them less competitive than their EU counterparts.
@Mick Jordan: its down against the dollar by less than 10% – I get the point you are trying to make but life in UK is the same – No better or worse. The vote was so close that a small swing would change result of course but no compelling reason to go again imho
@lavbeer: It is the same now but what will it be like in 2020 when they are out of the EU and we all know trade deals with other nations take years not months. And during that time the UK will be swinging in the wind paying premium prices for essential goods.
What are they doing in Gibraltar and Spain? Surly they are in a similar predicament? Would the same EU rules apply to both EU countries bordering with the UK? Have the Brexiteers asked the Spanish Government for a solution to their problem too?I think Leo is right, this is a British problem and they need to come up with proper viable solutions, then present these solutions to us and if not agreeable send them back to come up with other solutions until they come up with something agreeable to us. It’s not our problem to solve it’s theirs and they need to get it right, and if they don’t get it right before the deadline then nothing changes until they do.
@Míleata Watch Co: Gibraltar is easy to police though from a border perspective. What not clear is the Spanish crossing over to work nor the EU allowing the likes of Paddy Power a license to operate in EU. Suspect a high percentage of jobs there could be at risk in a standoff
Kenny just nodded in agreement to everyone else and asked no questions
Brexit .The English are just fluting around.. they reckon eventually they ll have the same relations with ireland but they trading outside the eu..they must be very tempted to try and draw us away from eu as well.It d be their usual form divide and conquer and give nothing ultimately….
Fintan O’Toole has a plausible explanation for Leo’s approach in today’s Irish Times
@Niall O Neill: Leo is the Pope Francis of Irish Politics, he is all spin and words with absolutely no substance or actions to show. Look at his political history and ministerial performance, what exactly has he achieved? He is a PR man, plain and simple, all talk and no action.
@Paul Fahey: which makes it all the more worrying that he manages to upset the little englander. If they had a solution they would have presented it by now.
@Paul Fahey: Genuine question Paul – do you think his comments on Brexit- and the absolute lack of clarity/detail even suggestions on how a border might work – were wrong?If so, why?
@Brinster: Not necessarily, but he is guilty of his own criticism am on the matter. It is not just Britain that a border effects, to the contrary it is arguable that it would be more damaging to us and therefore I expect him to be involved in solutions, not point blank refusing to discuss them and firing insults at our nearest and financially best neighbour.Has he ever produced anything of substance? Or is he simply playing to our need for a more, seemingly, progressive Ireland? (and I would class myself as sitting socially to the left of centre).
@Niall O Neill: O’Toole probably spent all weekend dreaming up that idea…..
@Paul Fahey: That’s the beauty of this situation. Ireland doesn’t have to do anything. This is entirely a British problem created by the English and as such up to them to solve.
@Mick Jordan: if you seriously believe that then you don’t fully understand the implications of Brexit on Ireland. You may want to sit there and do nothing whilst a significant percentage of trade with our largest trading partner disappears, but I do not and neither should our politicians. Further, if you believe Varadkar when he says he is doing nothing about the border and it is not for us to do anything about the border, then you are naive in the extreme. It is typical Varadkar, talking, but not walking as illustrated by his ministerial career to date, he achieved nothing, but spoke volumes.
@Paul Fahey:“therefore I expect him to be involved in solutions, not point blank refusing to discuss them”This is where I think the issue lies – I interpreted his comments to mean that he wants to be involved in the solutions but that we need the UK to step forward and propose what those solutions could be as a starting point.There is no benefit to Ireland making suggestions at this stage (quite aside that “frictionless” is a non existent fantasy) because the UK has not defined what exactly it wants.I interpreted his comments as a very necessary and realistic reminder to the UK that the clock is ticking and a failure to prepare will result in chaos.We’ve had a year of them dancing around the topic, refusing to define anything. The mandate May sought to define anything was then refused.We need them to snap out of the meaningless phrases and evasions and start making concrete plans.
@Paul Fahey: The British need Irish imports simply to feed themselves. Ireland has always been Britains larder. The vast majority of our export trade to the UK is from the food sector. British farmers simply don’t have the capacity or the ability to feed 70 million people. So Britain has no choice but to import food. And as any food coming from the continent will come via “Hard Borders” with all the red tape that implies (delay, expense,etc.) it is far more in their interest  to try and maintain an open/soft border with us. And Britain no longer is as important to Irish trade as it was even 20 years ago. So as I said they need us much more than we need them.
@Paul Fahey: we see, time will tell
@Boganity: agreed, only time will tell. Some people will be proven wrong and some right, time will tell.
Build a wall and let the English pay for it?
@Appaddy: English?
@Paul Fahey: yeh the Scots want out, and the Welsh are away with the Pixies; they want Ireland to pay for their motorways after Brexit so that leaves just the English
“………..Jones said that the British and Irish economies are very closely intertwined, and that the UK’s decision to leave the EU is something that should be addressed by both governments…….”Nonsense !! Britain left Europe so Britain can come up with its own solutions.
Brexit is a misnomer as it implies a clear idea of what a Government wants when it is really a hugely complicated topic that offers no clarity nor ever will . That is why the referendum based on yes/no was a crude position and at variance with its era rather than a straightforward choice so everyone has to deal with the consequences including this country. I believe the ‘stay in/leave’ are two sides of the same phony coin much like ‘climate change’ as the founding principles are so much lacking common sense that it threatens to drag our own politicians into a mire.
Varadkar is like a 5 yr old put into leaving cert class, clueless.
@@mdmak33: I think you meant “Jones”, or at least you would have had you read the article rather than the headline
Leo the liar is been found out early….
@Willy Malone:Huh?On what?Did you read the article? Or hear the interview? Just coz a Tory MP spouts rubbish doesn’t mean that anyone has been “found out”.Good to see you taking the Tory MP’s side though Willy. Fine Republican.
@Brinster:  FG TOOL
@Willy Malone:Pathetic.I’m a member of no party.Capable of recognising when someone stands up for the country though.
@Willy Malone: your comment makes no sense whatsoever given the context of what Leo said
Brexit will have significantly adverse consequences for both Nothern Ireland and Ireland. Technology will not provide a solution to a border.It will be a good time for criminal smugglers and others wishing to exploit a hard border.People call fool themselves that the adverse consequences of Brexit can be magicked away by technology and negotiation but a country which wishes to pull back into itself is not going to leave an open, porous and seamless border between Ireland and Northern Ireland.Unless a soft and nominal “pretend” Brexit can be negotiated, a Brexit in name but not in substance, a hard border is a consequence of a hard and real Brexit.
Spot on there @Tony Daly. There’s an interesting little thing going on in Brexiteer talk. They’ve no solutions to the problems they’ve created but are fast to attack those who point out the problems.Example – milk producers north and south are selling milk both ways -trucks cross cross the border collecting from farms around the border. Currently there are no issues with that milk trade we are in a single market. Nobody can tell me with certainty what the consequences are for this trade post U.K. NI exit as NI will be a third country and with the DUP being hard Brexiteers whilst at the same time talking down the problems it’s no wonder Irish and EU leaders are getting a bit impatient.
Jones has either lost the plot or hasn’t understood that the UK may only negotiate Brexit with the EU commission. Leo has made his views known but, as with all of the 27 remains members, has to go through the commission. This framework was agreed upon to prevent perfidious Albion from attempting to open up divisions among the 27.
Will everyone stop pussyfooting around this issue. There will be a hard border and so be it. We are either members of the club or not. Stop cow- towing toward Frauline Foster and her Tory backing stooges !
Where did this guy come out of the woodwork ? Another ‘expert’ who wouldn’t know a technological solution if it hit him in face. Increasingly it seems the Brits are waking up to the fact that Leo is someone to be reckoned with!!
The Risen: point taken.
why do we care if there is a hard border ? retailers in the south will tell you they lose a lot of business to the north – and as a state we lose tax income to the north . . . I reckon a hard border will be much more difficult for the unionists/loyalists than for us down south . . . they campaigned for Brexit, so let them live with it awhile . . .
@Brian O’Sullivan: a lot of towns in the republic actually depend on northern shoppers too.  go to Dundalk, Donegal, etc.  full of northeners doing their shopping
@gjpb:Why would Northerners be doing their shopping in the Republic when it’s more expensive to do so? You’re confusing shoppers with tourists, they’re not the same thing.
I’m amazed he wasn’t censored by Fine Gael, coz Mr 15% cowardly fannocks keep getting people barred off politics. Ie for telling the truth they refuse to believe, so we will come on here and other forums to tell people FG is a joke, run by a paper champion who could only muster 15% of the fg membership, how on earth can this man govern this country.
What’s the problem with a border?They don’t want to be Irish or EuropeanSo put a border up and fcuk them
@Danny Flynn: Not really about “them” (little englanders) though Danny.More about border trade, Good Friday agreement and the divisiveness a hard border could bring both between Ireland’s North and South and internally within the North.
@Danny Flynn: majority of people in NI voted to stay in the EU
@Danny Flynn: @Danny Flynn: the majority of “them” do, it’s the lunatic fringe in the DUP that don’t
@Brinster: A Hard Brexit will mean a Hard Border which in turn will lead to a Unification vote. For Unionists it will come down to a choice. Stay in the UK with a crippled economy and major loss of funds to their own bank balances for the sake of politics or Unite with the Republic, remain in the EU and with a slight alteration in public spending keep the economy on an even keel and money in their wallets. So to boil it down it will be a choice of outdated Politics or Money.
@Mick Jordan:http://www.newsletter.co.uk/news/first-major-post-brexit-survey-shows-no-surge-in-support-for-irish-unity-1-8013084
@Danny Flynn: Sorry Danny but if you have a small transport business in Inishowen Donegal, or want to encourage a factory to set up there, then the border is a bit of a disadvantage. Look at the map.
@Tommy Whelan: None yet, because nobody (not even the UK Government) know what type of Brexit they are going to end up with. A “Hard Brexit will mean a “Hard Border” there will be no way around it. And a Hard Border would be an economic disaster for the North. Just alone the loss of EU Subsidies to Northern Farmers will drive many of them to bankruptcy without even factoring in trade tariffs and other Red tape that goes with movement of goods from outside the EU.
only wag you finger and your tongue Leo when you are sure
We need an election asap to get rid of this clown. He wasn’t voted in by the people of this country and doesn’t speak on my behalf.
Pity they didn’t do more when she was alive. Money spears to be the motivation here.
@Kappa: they were removed from her at two weeks old when she was sent back to work in the Laundries by the nuns, they did not know whether they were meant to love her or like her over 20 years later, because they had never known her. When they did meet her over 29 years later she carried an empty handbag, because she owned nothing. Margaret went on to die young, possibly connected to her work in the laundries. Out off that story your only ability is to cast adverse aspersions about two victims of the laundries, disgusting. Had it not entered your mind that if they were motivated by money they would have sued twenty years earlier, not just for their mother, but for themselves too.
@Kappa: they would not receive any money you tool other survivors would. They told their mothers story because it was too late for her but not for others. We have a tradition of punishing women who get pregnant in this country and it still continues.
@Kappa: Maybe if you you read the article first, then make an assumption. The nuns used and abused the victims in these horrible places, exposed them to chemicals which cost them their lives.
@Kappa: that’s a ridiculous comment to make you need to educate yourself on what these poor women went through!
@Ossi Fritsche: I have fully read the article. I fully understand what went on and more so than a lot making comments here. Bottom line is these two women knew where their birth mother was and left her to it. As children I could understand this but not as adults. Now the poor lady has passes away they are writing her story. They didn’t know her and made no recent attempt to get to know her. So why write a story when their birth Mom is dead. Why not tell it when she was alive. Why not have done something to help her.
@Kappa: I don’t know who is worse, you or the 247 idiots who liked your heartless post
“She died in July nobody had told us”  how could they not know …whilst i don’t know the full story surely even if they had not spoken to Margaret in a while they would have phoned to see how she was doing during the months July to October . It’s hard to fathom.
@Marie Gunbay: “were we supposed to love her….like her ….I am sure all Margaret  wanted was somebody to put their arms around here and never ever ever let her be alone again .
@Marie Gunbay: taken from your mother at such an early age and finding her so many years later does not make for a “normal” relationship. Have not heard the original discussion but I would say the mother and the twins found themselves not knowing what to say to each other once the initial pleasantries were over.
@Marie Gunbay: busy lives maybe. Many don’t talk to their parents as much as they should because they are busy being parents themselves
Nobody went looking for her either, shame to be giving out after all this time – sinful
@Amanda Whelan: the only ‘sinful’ thing in the whole story is the despicable behaviour of the horrible nuns and their Catholic masters, the government and the Irish society as a whole!These women were enslaved in the name of the despicable cult from Rome and their willing  brainwashed servants in Irish politics&But sure, blame the victims in the typical Irish manner, put your head in the sand and say a little prayer and all will be grand!
@Marie Gunbay: this woman was institutionalised. I’d say her conversation was very limited and she would have had very little self esteem so probably didn’t want to make a fuss. Having a relationship with someone like that would be hard.
@Matt Beaumont: your right about the dispicable behaviour of Irish society and most of your comment is so true my point was  family giving their opinion now is sinful , perhaps if they did not bury their heads in the sand she might not have been there so long ?
@Marie Gunbay: I heard the original Joe Duffy show.  I remember one of the twins expressing that they were a bit nervous of Margaret.  They found her need for love and for a normal relationship overwhelming.  She wanted to be their mum but 20 yrs had passed and they had another mum.  I’ll never forget Margaret nor the injustices she suffered.
@Deborah Behan: having a relationship could of been hard, but she could of been re-introduced to society and lived as a free woman! People who have murdered have less a sentence and are let back into society with full backing from probation officers, housing etc!! It’s just unbelievable
@Fiona Moran: wouldve meant therapy and rehab which no one was willing to undertake
Irish people should never forget the horror of these labour camps , the people who profited should be made pay the ladies still alive for their lost lives, The people who let it happen the Garda , the state , charities , society etc.However not knowing the full story but isn’t it likely that it was Etta’s grandparents that signed Margaret’s life away , probably with good intentions and society knew what was going on but choose to ignore the horrible treatment.Irish people have a certain way to deal with problems it’s happening all around us even today with our treatment of people or even animals. We will be feigning shock in years to come but we know
@John Walsh: The Catholic Church is responsible for so many blighted lives over the years, an evil organisation who still have not paid the survivors what is due to them.
@John Walsh: salves pure and simple and digusting
@Gus Sheridan: the Catholic Church is not better than ISIS! The only difference is that the Catholic terror is more subtle and generally accepted by the public!
@john Appleseed: slaves
@Gus Sheridan: it’s easy to blame the church. Irish society was to blame. There would have been no laundries if parents wern’t so worried about what the neighbours would think and forcing their kids out of the home, sending the them off in fear. Some people had balls back then and stood up to that pressure.  But at the end of the day where would those girls have gone if there was no mother and baby homes. It is a sad reflection of ourselves and we cannot get away from it that easily by putting the full blame on the church.
@Missyb211: Garbage. The country was run from Rome, if people stood up to It they “disappeared” or were sent away. you seem naïve to the fact that the church controlled EVERYTHING
@Missyb211: dont be making excuses for despicable behaviour
@eileen boles: Making excuses? Would you ever cop on, the RCC got away with their behaviour because “respectable” Irish people let them get away with it.
Spending her entire life in a laundry and yet was the mother of 3 children..serious hidden secrets in our country. Who fathered all these babies of all these vulnerable women? They didn’t have the freedom to pursue romantic relationships yet time and time again they conceived children. I know the church held so much power over communities but how were more questions not asked. It’s barbaric.
@Sinead Boland: people didn t want the spotlight on them in any way its what you d expect from children we re still an immature society as its still going on
@Sinead Boland: anyone who asked questions ended up behind bars or gone missing or faced ridicule in their communities
@Sinead Boland After reading/researching about the laundries I found  it was often the priests that were involved with the laundries that continually raped these poor women that impregnated them. What these poor women/children went through on a daily basis was horrific
I feel sick after reading this,,, a totally heartless cloak of secrecy by the religious orders , This mothers life was hard enough without be reduced to a commodity of the Nuns for their sole gain and profit .
@Ciaran105: This was run to get money to provide food, heating doctors etc for the babys and mothers. It was hard for everyone in those days e.g. The tenements, the young men being killed in war by their thousands. The laundries did that and were did not make ‘huge profits’ actually barley broke even. No one in those days including the nuns had any money despite endless letters to the government for more money. Should they have not worked and expect the nuns to feed their babies #loavesdandfishes. Don’t forget these were the one holding the babies as they died from Pneumonia, Diphtheria, typhoid, Dysentery, Polio, Mumps, Rubella becaule of infected water systems, and malnourishment, cofirmed by doctors death certificates etc.
Hang on here.These comments here are awful.It’s not those girls fault one bit.Nor was it poor margarets either.It was the states fault entirely.And I hope they get compensated for it.Horrific story and so so sad.Unforgivable.
@gerry fallon: it was the fault of the Catholic Church in collusion with the State.
@gerry fallon: don’t forget about the horrible Catholic Church!
@gerry fallon: I am heartbroken for these girls and for their mother. And horrified but not surprised by the apologists and staunch defenders of the church and state who always seem to jump into these stories with their victim blaming. These girls and their mother are each victims of a cruel regime and the girls are absolutely right to seek compensation for the cruelty, institutionalisation, and death of Margaret, on her behalf. I don’t think it’s about money. The nuns certainly profited from Margaret’s labour. This is about addressing a gross wrongdoing.
The full story is not above.  I read it all some years ago.  Margaret was born to a mother who herself was incarcerated in a hospital.  Margaret was only 2 years old when she was put in Magdalene Laundry Yes 2, TWO years old.  When the Nuns were asked once how did Margaret get pregnant seeing that she had NEVER been free.  One of their stories was that they had taken the girls on an outing to Wicklow and a shopkeeper dragged Margaret behind the counter and raped her.  When did the Nazi Nuns ever take children or young girls/women out on an outing.  Margaret had two pregnancies, one with the twins as stated above and another girl.Poor dear Margaret kept ringing asking could she come and live with them and she would look after them all now that the adopted Mom had died.  Margaret just wanted to be out free and with her children.  I think it was Samantha who picked up the phone and rang the Nuns, Margaret’s Jailers, and told them that the family was going through a grieving process and could they stop Margaret from phoning them for a while. There were no further calls.  Margaret died within one year. Incarcerated since she was 2 years old…two pregnancies..I have heard of other pregnancies by Laundery Women who were never “outside” or allowed to talk to a man.  I have often wondered did the Magdalene Laundery & Industrial School Nuns pimp out their slaves…God Rest you in His arms you dear dear Lady Margaret…
Middle of the article refers to “Margaret Long” – typo surely as “Long” appears to be the adoptive surname of Margaret Bullen’s twin daughters?
Kappa, what else is there when everything else was controlled and taking away from the victims only money.The victims see it as someone has to pay for the hurt caused to them, their Mother and other victims of the Laundrys. The victims worked hard with no pay, they are now fighting for justice nothing can bring back or undo what they went through.But they are entitle to compensation.
I was saddened and angered in equal measure by reading that story.  The Ireland I grew up in looks completely different now I know what it was really like.  A cruel and mean-spirited place.  And it still is a cruel and mean-spirited place judging by some of the comments here.  The State crushes the life and spirit of an unfortunate woman, and all some people can speak about, and with not a trace of empathy, is how they think the the two innocent daughters should have behaved, and casting cruel aspersions on  their motives for highlighting this story.  Like you all know how two daughters stolen from their mother should be after 29 years apart.  Shame on you.
This was slavery pure and simple.
Sadly some of the surviving magdalen  woman are still under the “care” of the nuns  though it’s now run under the guise of a charity.Its state funded which means we are still funding repressive religious institutions and these poor elderly women are completely institutionalized because they have never had free will to do anything . And unfortunately if any of them are able to apply for redress(most can’t because they can’t read or write )any money received  will probably go right back to the religious “charity ” that has kept locked up all their lives .
Irish people should never forget the horror of these labour camps , the people who profited should be made pay the ladies still alive for their lost lives, The people who let it happen the Garda , the state , charities , society etc.However not knowing the full story but isn’t it likely that it was Etta’s grandparents that signed Margaret’s life away , probably with good intentions and society knew what was going on but choose to ignore the horrible treatment.Irish people have a certain way to deal with problems it’s happening all around us even today with our treatment of people or even animals. We will be feigning shock in years to come but we know
Maybe I missed something here, but why did this lady have to continue living in the laundry, even after she met her daughters!! Basically she was kept a prisoner by them so called Nuns!
@Fiona Moran: She didnt have to continue to stay these, she could have left! She was not a prisoner!
@kappa,Read the article and try to understand what’s been said!
it is so easy to blame the church and nunsit was not the nuns are priests who forcedthem in but society.if the nuns did not take them inthey would be on the side of the road or worse.the nuns took in what the familys and society rejectedhow many young mothers felt the love and compassionthat the familys did not give.i am part of the roman catholic churchtake the log out of your own eye.before you see the splinterin your brothers.jim
@Jim Foley: so what your saying is that forcing women into concentration camp -like facilities where they were forced to hard labour without compensation, robbed of their children who were then sold to the US and physically and emotionally abused was an act of mercy by the church and the nuns?????If that was true then surely Hitler built the concentration camps to protect the Jews and the Brits starved the Irish to death for their own good?You are a pathetic little man and should be ashamed of yourself!
@Matt Beaumont: No one forced them in!
Caused by the way she was treated???
Religion is poison
Margaret Bullen had nothing inHER handbag and she was an Irish citizen! SHAME ON IRELAND!
No reason to.Why would we needlessly antagonise another country and try to create trouble for ourselves?I think he’s a very poor leader but he’s US President.
@Jenny mcCarty: plus we have invited worse !!!! China comes to mind !!!
@Brinster: we would be foolish not to continue our relationship with the US. He won’t be there forever.
@Brinster: spot on. No need to uninvite anyone. Talking is always better.
@Brinster: I don’t think he is .
Good, he should come here.  US is very important to us.
The Don is a friend to Ireland, the day that we don’t accept or invite a US president here is the day we need our collective heads examined.
Be staggering if he did considering how deeply we are in hock to US corporations.Anyway, really looking forward to the Leftie meltdown.
@Tommy Browne: Awww,you’re so edgy ! Love it!
@Tommy Browne: nice to know you support all his policies. Got it.
Is Leo the biggest spoofer FG ever had as leader ?It’s a YES from me
Who in their right mind would uninvite the president of the USA.?Disagree with office holder as much as you want. But the office is a shining light to the world, Ireland cannot afford to besmirch one of its main allies.
Brace yourselves. The Trump Derangement Syndrome sufferers are coming.
@Jenny mcCarty: the only ones moaning are you guys!
Well it seems for all the media hype about our new Taoiseach he is no different from his predecessor. Plus ça change etc.
The US is most important trading partner we have. According to the OEC Ireland exports more to the US than the next two EU countries on the list combined. Why would any Irish leader sacrifice the close ties we have with our strongest ally
Only the left-wing Irish media would want to rescind an invitation for a State visit to Ireland by the President of the United States, not the Irish people.
Leo has chosen reasoned discussion over emotional hysterics. Well done Leo.
@Joe Caulfield: You mean the emotional hysterics from Trump if we were to rescind his invitation?
@Lisa Dorothy:  No Leo would be instigator in that instance.
Without the US there would be no Ireland.
@Tommy Browne: Better learn your history . Without Ireland there would be no US
@Mary Mc Carthy:Symbiotic.
Ireland needs the US and the UK no matter the politics. You can’t eat morals
I wonder has Leo put a few thousand euros aside for the influx of the 5-10 people that will be deported in the next decade or so from the US..
@Francis Mc Carthy: 5-10 people doesn’t seem a lot!
@Jenny mcCarty: where did je mention any nationality? By the way, congratulations on account number 71
@Deborah Behan: Yup!
Of course Leo won’t because he is Flip Flopper in Chief.
I don’t think Trump will come unless he thinks we all plan to fawn over him, which I sincerely hope most Irish people won’t.
No reason to make a headline out of Trump coming to Ireland, afterall he owns property here. What would happen if the taoiseach didn’t get an invite to America for St.Patricks Day celebrations.
Of couse he’d like Trump to come. He’ll get a big thrill out of it !
@Adrian: because…?
@Dermot Foley: because of same reason he got a thrill from meeting May and all the pompus officialdom and attention he got from it.
Trump does not give 2f’s about Ireland. Lets get him here and let our feelings known.
Saudi Arabia invited him, it is enough Cash for him and Israel.
Sure Leo can look Trump in the eye and say “nah nah nah my pay packet is bigger than yours”
So Enda Kenny insulted Donald Trump publicly and our new Taoiseach said he would not invite President Trump to Ireland. Are all Taoiseachs idiots now determined to undermine the National Interest so to look popular repeating media friendly sound bites? Depressing.
One egotist meets another
This guy is full of poop
This pig is not wanted in Europe
Leo your the man a pure leader a long time since we had one strong enough great forward thinking manGreat work
Should we not be looking at who is most suitable to the position rather than appoint someone based on gender for the sake of it
@gjpb: We should, which is why it’s both surprising and disappointing that there aren’t more women at senior level.
@Peter Smyth: who do you recommend exactly and why would they be better than anyone else?
@gjpb: Do you feel that the selections represent the best we have?
@Peter Smyth: best of a bad bunchCan you name the women who should be there any why they should be there over anyone else?
@gjpb: I wouldn’t pick any of them, male or female. I don’t vote FG or FF. Statistically speaking though, if you are to pick people based on ability alone you would expect the gender balance of the cabinet to equal the gender balance of the pool of candidates.
@Peter Smyth: OK so you’re not aware of any other women who would be suitable candidates.
@gjpb: That’s not what I said and you’re avoiding my point with a personalised request. I don’t rate any of the not-selected woman higher than the selected men. My actual point: I don’t rate any of the selected men higher than the not-selected women. I don’t rate any of them, male or female. The gender balance should  represent the pool it came from. If it doesn’t, something else is at play.
@Peter Smyth: No, you are avoiding an answer by not naming possible candidates. By saying that the gender balance should be the same as the pool to choose from is a simplification of the problem. And by not naming a candidate you are proving yourself wrong.
@Peter Smyth: Answer a question with a question, slither around and don’t answer a very simple question based on your own assertion.Bluffer Peter -
@Peter Smyth: What was the gender balance of the pool of candidates?
@Peter Smyth: The best mates they have more like.
@gjpb: if that was the case the place would be empty.
@gjpb: Yes. Let’s start doing than then.
How O Connor even gets close to the cabinet table is a mystery.
@Leadog: She has a lot of drive but has come down the steps a bit.
@Cram Wood: that was fantastic
Shur we all know Leo ain’t into women
@Cathal Shannon: He’ll be worse than -Yiann- -Yia- -Milo- – just wait!
Joan stop giving women a bad name. It’s all about quality not quantity.
Not much of it on display from any of the choices, tbh.
@DaisyChainsaw: absolutely correct. It’s about talent. Choose the best talent. I’d have no bother in the world if it was 80% women and 20% men if the 80 were the best choices. If anything Joan is actually embarrassing women saying they should be there to make up numbers and balance it out. Quality not quantity
Cos joan was so good when she was a minister.  Mmoc was demoted because of her lack of competence no other reason.
@ed w: Joan burton is a has been, when she was in government she didn’t do very well & is best forgotten, she has cost the state large amounts of money because of this so called kidnapping which was a laugh & a complete waste of time & money
Wake up iJoan. By all accounts mitchell-oconnor was struggling in her role. Roles should be awarded on ability not gender not geography
@Keith Gregg: Completely agree. By all accounts she wasn’t very good at her role so why keep her. Im all for equality but thats just common sense!
@Keith Gregg: If they were only chose on their ability only we would have no ministers at all but genders should be scrapped before those in Clonskeagh try to take advantage of it.
Jan and Joan the Quota Queens.Capability doesn’t matter to the “J”s, just gender.As long a female is steering the Titanic they are happy.
@Cram Wood: it’s pathetic
LOL…Mary Mitchell O’Connor and higher education in the same sentence…you really couldn’t make this $hit up.
Surely gender should be irrelevant. Mary Mitchell O’Connor was sh!t at her job. That’s what’s relevant. If you’re sh!t at your job, you’ll get the sack. Why should TD’s be any different?
What about all the other genders!
Why do women do this to themselves?  Wanting a woman in a job for the mere fact she is a woman is so counterproductive to their cause.  If you came up with actual reasons why someone is more qualified to be in a position and did not get it then it would look less like demanding special treatment and people would be outraged.  Insisting these high governmental jobs should be given to some women just results in lipservice being paid and completely undermines actually strong intelligent women who do get into high power jobs based on their ability and hard work.
@Kris Kendellen: I completely agree with you, it’s counteractive to feminism.
Super junior minister! Really where do they get the titles… Whats next? Wouldn’ mind but there’s nothing super about any of them except in their own eyes… Aa for gender balance I’m all for one less actually…..Burton a complete waste of space!!
@Lydia McLoughlin: Super Junior was invented to keep Pat Rabbitte happy during the Rainbow Coalition- there always room for a eunuch at the table
@Lydia McLoughlin: in case you are not aware this super junior has been around a while
@Paul Coughlan: tx for that!  Either way waste if space still stands! Jobs for the boys….or women in this case
Stop the lights there’s 1 less woman, this is a travesty, women should mobilise and protest immediately, Go feminists…
“At a time when we should be promoting women”???? Isn’t that sexism. So basically a better candidate (in this case male because that’s what was chosen) should lose out to a woman. Yep, that’s sexism.
Enda promoted mmoc to jobs minister in order to shoehorn another women into the cabinet.  Its just a pity he didn’t choose the right woman as she was out of depth in the role and she could not see her own incompetence which made it embarrassing for all concerned.
“There are now three women ministers – Heather Humphreys, Katherine Zappone, Regina Doherty – and one super junior minister, Mary Mitchell O’Connor”Emmn Francis Fitzgerald?
@Jacintha Murray: what ministries does Fitzgerald have. Her record in justice was a disgrace.
@Aidan Healy: She’s been moved to Enterprise. agree wouldn’t rate her at all for Justice.
@Jacintha Murray: Any idea why she’s still Tánaiste?
@Lorem Ipsum:  Haven’t a clue. Way beyond my pay scale :-)
@Jacintha Murray: or Enterprise for that matter. She wears glasses to hide her lies.
I thought there were no genders now.
Moan moan moan.
So what she got demoted? It most probably wasn’t a gender based decision. Generally cabinet reshuffles are about rewarding loyalty, and perhaps they just did not have the best relationship with Leo to begin with. I dislike it all coming down to gender. Again, it’s the evil men controlling it all. I’ll
There are four female ministers and one super junior. She forgot Frances Fitzgerald.
Joan , hated by most , every little helps …
Burton has done untold damage to the cause for women, a vile creature to say the least
What is a “super junior” minister and what do they do? They all look quite old to me!!
@Angeles: they wear a cape and go around saying “have you switched it off and back on again? Maybe try that?”…..
Dose anyone really care what Burton has to say and labour more so,do they not realise Labour are finished and it’s all thanks to her and the rest of them who were such a shambles,sick of hearing her and labour still getting their one cent in cause no one cares what they have to say anymore
Joan was a pretty poor minister when she was there herself.
One advantage of having a gay man as Taoiseach I suppose is that the feminazi have to bite their hairy lips for fear of being labelled homophobic.
@Tommy Browne: maybe he makes six females
It’s not over yet. Female Attorney General and Garda Commissioner likely to be replaced by males. The Chief Justice is due to retire sometime soon. Chances that she will be replaced by another woman are remote. It’s nearly over for the women in senior positions.
@VIncent McGloughlin: they could put Josephine Feehily in one of these positions.
You post made absolutely no sense. Are you saying certain ministerial positions should be filled based on how attractive the Taoiseach finds the candidate? Is this the limit of your knowledge of a selection process… Have you been watching Mad Men?
Super junior minister…??? Never heard of that position
Sure isnt Leo a Big girl.
Regina Doherty and empty vessels strike a remarkable similarity.
Not a great day for men,dogs,birds,etc,,, either
Regina Doherty being in cabinet is a slap on the face to taxpayers ..women and men.Joan is no great ad for women in politics either.
Unlike the men that totally denominate Journal.ie, Women account for half of the Irish Population ~ therefore half of the cabinet should be women. Men don’t occupy most higher positions because of talent, it’s because it’s a boys club – all commenters who say otherwise are in denial and, in my humble opinion, quite the ‘sado’ as the kids do say
@Maevé: it doesn’t take you to be very bright to understand that, when such a small proportion of TDs are women, it would be hugely unbalanced for women to occupy half thr cabinet seats..
@Daffy the Bear: Exactly – not only the cabinet Daffy, we should apply it to all levels of politics! Women aren’t being given fair opportunities at all levels. It’s time for change. I’m with ya!
A super junior position? One unnecessary and tiresome adjective there
Another stupid comment by Bruton
@Science of beer: that’s BURTON.
Heard Leo’s father being interviewed on RTE. When asked what political hopes he had for his son’s tenure as Taoiseach he replied:‘I hope he looks after the poor and the vulnerable in Irish society’Father – know thy son.
The homeless and those in deadend shorterm unsecure HAP are going to be moved left right and centre by this all over the place Taoiseach
poor Mary Mitchell O Connor-What will she do now for attention -She will have to drive down the steps again.
@Bennythekid: Still in the cabinet.
@Bennythekid:Kenny used her. Now she will have to suck it.
@Heroin Chic: only one demoted.
@Christy Nolan: sure enough Christy-Her face was was in front of every camera when ever Fine Gael claimed to be giving out one of those five eight jobs-you would nearly think she actually owned the company’s that were dishing them out.
It was vomit inducing to watch the td’s scurrying into getting their big bums on their seats in the dail today, reminded me of the look you see on kids faces when they win a seat playing musical chairs! & as for Coveney been moved just before his deadline of July 2017 to look after the homeless!
Martin callinan was the story of the day.
@Trevor Beacom: Did the Journal actually cover that? I haven’t seen an article on it here..
@Brendan McGill: look again
@Dave O Keeffe: Fair enough, my bad.
@Trevor Beacom: I thought that it was the fire of London, such a tragedy and one wonders could it happen here and how would the emergency services handle it.Well done to the London fire service, medics, police and local communities for offering their support to the victims.
Musical chairs and no one to blame for new ministerial positions …. Housing from scratch again … Joke …
Still be Frankfurt’s way, whatever happens?
Copying Macroon in France except we have known him for ten years and aren’t buying it!!!
@Eamon Quinlan: Macron
Whatever about FG Choirboys, at least they take their seats to engage fully in the democratic process.Contrast that with SF, which persists with the 19th century abstentionist policy towards Westminster, having had 7 MPs elected last week.Political eunuchs, toeing an Ard- Comhairle line which is completely at odds with the need for their constituents to have the strongest representation at this time.Are they seriously leaving it to the DUP to make “our ” Brexit case in the British Parliament?Pragmatic politics is what is required, not ancient dogma.
@William Kelly: But Sinn Fein won all nationalist seats in the north on an abstentionist ticket so do not have a mandate to take their seats in westminster.
@William Kelly: The Constituants MUST agree with them since they continue to vote for them knowing what their policy is in advance…
Big deal, Gerry was doing stretches before Leo.
@Dave Hogan: And would be doing a long stretch by now, if it wasn’t for his political contacts.
Thought it was Waterford whispers I was reading for a sec!
Big Phil Hogan was his advisor on placements. Strawberry Beds in Castleknock was the “secret” venue. Phil loves a jar and talks very loudly.
Spellcheck your sub-headline, FFS. Amateurs.
I suppose he cudnt be worse than the usless bollicks he replaced
@Seamus Begley: he could. He could up or taxes, create more jobs for the bhoys, and the stasi ahemm I mean garda anything to be done about them?
Cant be any worse than whats gone before.Good luck to him
Wants to unite the country – be careful what you wish for Mr Varadkar
I DON’T TRUST HIM AT ALL AND I AM NOT BUYING HIS STUFF!  TOOK HIM AAAAAGESS TO COME OUT.
#notmytaoiseach
Ah Leo, Ireland’s answer to Theresa May, so many similarities!
Leo the not one more red cent liar ..
@James Reilly: is there any chance that we can put up an article with Ireland’s national debt during Enda and Noonan’s stint in office? The one that’s gone from €65b to €185b, not the leprechaun economics one.
@James Reilly: is there any chance that we can put up an article with Ireland’s national debt during Enda and Noonan’s stint in office? The one that’s gone from 65b to 185b, not the leprechaun economics one.
Leo’s doing fair well for himself….the other half is well easy on the eye!!! Michael Martin’s son is the same. Not a thing wrong with him. I obviously care more about politics than aesthetics but it does help….
Can’t seem to warm to Leo,at all.Comes across a bit of a smarmy,smug know-it-all,to me anyway.That smile is about as genuine as a hookers orgasm.I would have much preferrred Simon Coveney but alas we are where we are.
I like Leo. Wish him well.
@Sham K: interesting that you know him.
@Tony Daly: well surely that could strengthen their opinion no?
Don’t trust him…too far right for the good of this country and is a new breed  of politician who will inflict their policies. Him and Pascal in finance does not bode well for this country…at all
@Tony Skillington: somebody has to pay the taxes
@Minom Pnom: it sure won’t be multinational corporations or vulture funds paying taxes, with Leo in charge
@Tony Skillington:  Leo is about as right wing as Lenin.
A committed far right neoliberal. If you thought Kenny and Noonan were bad. You haven’t seen anything yet.
@Dave Doyle: I bet you are wrong on that one. His record in social protection doesn’t indicate he will do anything significant
@Dave Doyle: Ah Dave. Give him a chance.He’s appointed Eoghan Murphy, his campaign manager, to Housing. Expect an announcement of massively increased Social Housing budget soon.Mind you, Regina Doherty taking over Social Protection doesn’t exactly give you a warm fuzzy feeling…..
@Brinster: Time will tell Brinster.If he manages to get something positive and meaningful done re social housing, i will give credit where it is due.Seen on the Hub Ireland FB page the front cover of a bill for “Mortgage to rent” legislation to come before the Dail.According to the Hub Ireland this is the way those in mortgage arrears are going to be dealt with. I wouldn’t think this is a very positive step.https://www.facebook.com/irishselfhelpzone/photos/rpp.186111024879020/817872558369527/?type=3&theater
@lavbeer: His “Rat for Leo” campaign was very significant.
@Dave Doyle: “Far Right” Lolz. He’s more left wing than Bernie Sanders.  In fact, there isn’t that much difference between him and Jezzer Corbyn.
@Dave Doyle: Has John McGuinness name on it – he’s FF isn’t he? Would need more detail before inmplications are knownThought it was positive that Varadkar specifically mentioned that he was considering a vacant premises tax.He acknowledged the timeline for Social Housing wasn’t quick enough.Use the “rainy day” fund I say.For health and housing, the rainy day has been here for seven years…
Delighted for him, imagine all the years he’ll have on a Taoiseachs pension.
Young FGers quick fingered?
@Eyepopper:As far as I’m aware ministers pensions now only kick in at 66 or thereabouts, a change brought in by the last government.
@P.J. Nolan: about time really don’t know of another job where you can get a pension early
@Michael Hayden: Prison officer, teacher, garda, defence forces to name a few!
@Michael Hayden: All defined contribution pensions- most only stipulate that employer contributions cannot be taken until you are 5 years in the scheme. When you leave your job, your pension is yours, no matter how young you are. Most people transfer it to their next job/pension fund to protect it from tax liability. Only at 65 can you take a lump sum tax free, while putting the remainder into an annuity
Who would feel good about someone with no mandate to be Leader becoming one by default total joke he has being useless in all the ministries he has had cannot stand the man
@Martin O Donnell: who has a mandate?
@Paul: kind of the point Paul isn’t it? I think it should be an election when the leader of the country steps down.
“His first job as leader was to form his new Cabinet.”He didn’t form a new cabinet he just reappointed the same old suspects from Enda’s cabinet. Meaning don’t expect any changes. Steady as we go cabinet until we get the pension as ministers…….
@Kerry Blake: sober up you idiot. He did make changes and even if he didn’t that doesn’t make the statement incorrect. We seriously need a cull in this country
I never felt worse about a new Taoiseach.  His attitude is typical for a young-ish careerist, who was lucky enough that his life got never struck by any great misfortune.  If he loves ‘people who get up early in the morning’ so much (as he stresses every other day or so), I hope one day he may learn that there are also people in this world who CANnot get up – not because they sleep off their hangover, but because they may be too sick or old or handicapped or depressed.  But it seems, in his view they are all just social welfare fraudsters…
@Peter Schneider: Its absolutley astonishing that those who cant get up early in the morning, like those who you mentioned above get the same benefits as those who simply wont get up to work or find a job. Those with genuine disability, that prevents them from working, should be given a living wage by the state.Those that simply wont work, re-train etc should be cut. It should not be the responsibility of the tax payer to fund lifestyles for those who suffer from chronic laziness. I was one of those people for a few years and one can live a comfortable life on 188 living at home. Living on the dole should not be comfortable.Now a few years on working full time, paying rent and back loans from re-training, I am actually worse off than my days on the dole. Income has gone up but so have out goings and tax cuts for those of us who do indeed rise at 6 am and may not see home again until near 8 in the evening should be top of the agenda. By giving the worker more take home pay and cutting those who are lazy, while looking after the sick, will in turn reap far more benefits long term
@phil:I understand what you say and I agree; presently there is too little incentive to take up work when you can.  There would be better ways of calculating benefits and taxes, which protects those without work while still rewarding work.  (I am thinking of the ‘basic income’ system, though the term is rather misleading.)However I do feel very bad about the attitude I sense behind Leo’s statements.  Social security has its faults and problems, but I don’t want it demolished and live in the 19th century again.
Shower of FG licks or liers that result
@Dfourdaz81: No need for grammar nazis
@Dfourdaz81: You are being Pedantic so
@abcyz: you are really really angry about this aren’t you? Have you thought of taking an extended holiday for a while? This stress can’t be good for you
@Dfourdaz81: Well atleast you are not a shameless Leo fan so we friends
@Cicero: Leo and FG have ensured no one can afford a holiday but if you offering thanks as getting off this island would do the majority despairing citizens the world of good literally
@Dfourdaz81: Nazis not nazi’s
@Dfourdaz81: *Nazis
@abcyz: the only notable thing I can think of that Leo did recently was try and stamp out welfare fraud- which I’m sure everyone would agree with. Plus that would only affect a tiny proportion of the population anyway.I think the majority can probably afford a holiday but even if you can’t then you could look at options like volunteering in refugee camps or something. Set up a go fund me…. I would support that
@Dfourdaz81: Nazis is plural. …
“How do you feel about Leo Varadkar being Taoiseach?”  Probably be a more valid question to ask after the country’s had another year of his party’s fraud, deceit and corruption. Just another liar to represent the agenda of the privileged few, just like FF.
Couldn’t give a s**t should be an option also
Disappointed already.. Varadkar said  he wanted to increase capital spending in areas like transport,  education and other areas.Why then,  didn’t he get rid of Ross..?
If he wasn’t such a raging right winger, it would be a cause for celebration.  He’s Taoiseach in spite of his heritage and sexuality and because of demonising welfare recipients and before that, making contribution to the complete balls up of the HSE.
@DaisyChainsaw: He demonised welfare recipients? When?All I saw was him demonising welfare cheats…
I wish the new young Taoiseach well!Hopefully, he can visit his father’s homeland, India, on a trade mission fairly soon and encourage Investment and tourism from there into Ireland.Leo is India’s JFK. Great story for the 1.3 billion natives!
Way to far right. Divisive in his approach to politics. Not good for the country.
His reign will be short ☺️
Pessimistically optimistic.
Form and appearance prevails over substance.It is silly to assert that there is no right and no left.
@Tony Daly: Whingers would normally be found in the corner of a bar in other times but the Journal provides a public service in promoting you to the pulpits of society.  The Irish population have ,by and large, managed to avoid a left or right ideology that plagues this era as individuals are not easily pigeon holed or forced to conform to blanket views like labour and the conservatives are in the UK, in other words we are comfortable with a balance. People who vote for same gender marriage may not be comfortable with abortion, people who make allowances for the good in tradition don’t  go berserk once the Church or government are mentioned  while recognizing change is always necessary .
@Gerald Kelleher: this is a conservative country. There is nothing wrong with that. Why can’t our two conservative parties just admit what they are. People of the gaels,soldier of destiny, we are selves,  sadly mean nothing. Time for tds to stop acting like the local chieftain and stand on principle.
@prop joe:  The republicans and democrats in the States are a conservative/liberal split but their dialogue is polarizing and doesn’t lend itself to a balance of political power which sometimes requires adopting agile positions which suits a small country in a creative and productive way.  We might care about pollution but not about the bandwagon of ‘climate change’ whereas I can tell what party an American belongs to by their views on that matter.
@Gerald Kelleher: You are a wise and intelligent man.
Varadkar will be found out soon enough. He’s failed in every single portfolio handed to him – this will be no different. If we had a press in this country that didn’t consist of O’Briens hacks & soft touch fanboys – Varadkar would be eaten alive. Call a GE – we dare you!
Ground breaking statistical awareness will be pulled out of this one. Next up what does the colour purple smell like A. Good B. Bad
A Chinese leader was asked what did he think of the outcome of the French Revolution and he said ‘ it’s too soon to tell
When the correct answer was ‘a catastrophe from beginning to end’.
The problem is, ‘Stupid’ is a subject studied widely in schools and universities. Every year that goes by, people are graduating in ‘Stupid’ and we are all going to hell in a handcart because we keep voting for Stupid careerist politicans – not people with leadership, vision or experience..
There wasn’t a button for “I don’t care” so couldn’t vote. Nothing against Varadkar it’s just that the political system is redundant. It doesn’t matter who the messenger is, the message is the same. Invisible actors run the show.
He is too right wing for me as is FG.
He’s the same as the rest of the parasitic leeched, snouts in the trough, right wing who will carry on the same shameful legacy as Kenny
@Jonny: obviously most thinking people don’t agree
Leo will look after the rich like his other cronies in power while the working class and poor continue to suffer to try buy their own homes and house the homeless!!
I thought this poll was going to be :Poll: How happy are you about Leo Varadkar being Taoiseach?Pretty happy?Very happy?Extremely happy?
Different PR face – same party that has back-stabbed a nation of people.
I like Leo. But he seems to be to busy chasing welfare fraud and nothing bout the likes of seanie fitz, the real gangsters
Wish him the best but fear the worst!
It’s not about personal likes or dislikes!He is properly elected by FG, so lands in pole position as Taoiseach to undertake his ” principled politics”, etc.Well, he has 2 years to turn the boat around from the unprincipled conduct of the last 2 FG dominated regimes.May I propose that he includes the “restoration” ,to use public service language, of the permanent lifetime cuts to private pensions that remain in place after the departure of M. “Levy” Noonan.Wouldn’t that be very principled? & just? &fair?
just a bunch of old self serving cronies listed in the ministerial roles…wheres the modernity or even decency
I like LV but surely to god its the people of the country should vote for who leads the country not his own friends and work mates.
50%??The resident outraged on here are not going to like that!It’s a fix! It’s been hacked! Frapper room etc.
Jobs for the boys… Don’t expect any changes… Same shit different day
Suicidal.
dont like him too slick, im sure there all happy nice big pensions for them
I see young FG were busy this morning.
Liked him until he said Frances Fitzgerald is doing a good job . It’s just more of the same
Trade mission to Saudi.
Beware of Beardies bearing false teeth,otherwise enjoy the position, the job and hopefully the results of good Governance.
This country badly needs a pro-business, pro-development and tax cutting agenda to counter balance the infantalised state of a large cohort of the Irish population that rely on the sugardaddy taxpayer as a child relies on its parents. I fear Leo may not be as effective as needed but he is at least a step in the right direction.
@Fred Jensen:That’s the heart of the problem – it’s a too far right-wing direction.
@Fred Jensen:We don’t have any right wing parties in this country. The choices range from centre left to loony far left.
@Fred Jensen: says a looney and extreme right winger.
@Fred Jensen: why are you speaking to yourself??
@Fred Jensen: there’s  7% unemployment rate. It’s merely 3% higher than the lowest it has ever been. The “infantilised” sector of the population as you put it need support and I have no quibble helping them out. Infinitely better than the American policy of donating food stamps to large swathes of the population who are burning the candle at both ends to try and make ends meet. All this while a vast sector of the wealth is concentrated about perfidious families like the Roth child’s and Trump’s.
@Fred Jensen: yep the banking sector is run by money lefties who expect handouts and 10 years later are even more inefficient – losing mortgage application, sending out the wrong offer 4 times. Delays etc. – well they certainly act like they’re operating in 1960s Russia.Yep the looney left is alive and well. Zero competition and billions of handouts..
@saoirse janneau: 7% is 75% more than 4%.
@Fred Jensen: What you just said the country needs is exactly what the country has been feeding to its detriment. We need to impose more taxes on the well off businesses and the rich and the corporations.
@Fred Jensen: The comments here are beneath contempt. The same old looney left jibe from sick people who love to deny rights to those who entitled to them. Rights are Justice. Rights are what the people of Ireland have enshrined in the constitution. That includes a home an income and health. The far right like Varadkar and his Ilk will pay dearly for targeting the ordinary people with vilification. The people will remove them. Its that simple.
@Fred Jensen: That is a false manipulated unemployment figure based on massaged figures doctored for political reasons. The real figure is about 15 per cent.
@Nointerest Here: and who will be put in? And how will they make things better? Tax the rich? Shake the magic money tree? Launder fuel?
Fred Jensen, you must be a descendant of Trevelyan.
@Bilbo Baggins: there has been a 75% reduction in unemployment levels since last year. Down from 8.4% to 6.4%. I overestimated the unemployment figures by .6%. This was not the purpose of my comment.  I merely wanted to highlight that a very small percentage of our population  need social welfare assistance. Would prefer by far to help them than the banking sectors that overstretched their mark on futures in Anglo etc etc etc
@Fred Jensen and it never rains in this country either, correct? Why, also can you tell me is it ‘Loony’ to be a socialist???? Sounds loony to me that you would just slur certain politicians with that name merely because you disagree with their social based agenda!?
@Fred Jensen: They thought that in US, and look what they got, only saying.
@Fred Jensen: Don’t kid yourself. They are all puppets with the same agenda, its all a show to keep you distracted.
@Fred Jensen: yes why don’t you blame the less well off in our Country – while paying over all your hard earned money to the EU, IMF and all the lovely banker that go off scot free and all those who the state owes money to after the collapse of the Country.  You are they kind of person Leo will love for his welfare cheat programme, I’d say you would shop your own mother. You would expect the most vulnerable in our society such as the disable to crawl to a job, however we are so lucky that we have more decent human beings in this Country than the likes of you.
@fredjensonFred,  what can I say?  Last week you were promoting “apartheid” between the haves and have nots. You say we don’t have right wing politics? What kind of reality do you actually live in? Please answer my questions this time. Snob.
The Tory Taoiseach :(
@Tír Eoghain Gael: just like your own prime minister so.
Was Leo against gay marriage a few years ago like Enda? Why was he in the closet so long?
Mr Veradker needs to remember that the public didn’t vote for him to be Taoiseach.
@Eamonn Sheen: Under our Constitution, that would be impossible~¡~
@Eamonn Sheen: Under our Constitution, that would be impossible~¡~
@Eamonn Sheen:when did we ever vote for a Taoiseach?The Dáil always votes for a Taoiseach
@Tweety and Paul: the Irish public haven’t been given the opportunity to give their verdict on FG with Varadkar as leader.
2017. The year Ireland got it’s first openly classist Taoiseach.Just remember leo, you’re the Taoiseach for ALL citizens, including the ones you use to score tawdry political points with.
@The Risen: he’ll be delighted with the advice, jam m8…
Leo hated Enda for the last 7 years to the day & was one of the main FG frontbenchers who lead the heave against Enda. The fake praise to Enda is so disingenuous & himself & Simon had no backbone to get rid of Enda since the 2016 election.
A dark day for Ireland
@Eamon: Please explain?
@Eamon: want to give some insight there?? Troll!!
FFS ! All the fuss, pretence and nonsensical carry on in the Dail yesterday and more of the same today ! Humiliating stuff. More important things happening in the world.
ENJOY THE honeymoon leo it wont last long
One great thing to come out of this is that people in the comments section might finally shut up about Enda for five seconds!
Fred Jensen38mins agoThis country badly needs a pro-business, pro-development and tax cutting agenda to counter balance the infantalised state of a large cohort of the Irish population that rely on the sugardaddy taxpayer as a child relies on its parents. I fear Leo may not be as effective as needed but he is at least a step in the right direction.Some people are just plain Dumb ,  60 billion we gave banks, Apple owes us 14 billion, the only way we could get more pro business is to start offering them hand jobs…. and this guy would rather we leave our poor sink or swim.  some people are just really dumb..
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: The person you quoted is obviously mentally challenged being so brainwashed.
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: Fred is a long time FG troll. Don’t feed the trolls.
I definitely don’t envy that man. He’s taking over a country with a lot of problems and in the eyes of many he can do no right. Doubt he will last long.
Is he? Jaysus I hadn’t heard about this at all..
Ok, what the fudge is wrong with these gombeens going after Leo for his welfare cheats campaign ? Like i said before, how can anyone justify someone FRAUDENTLY claiming something they are NOT entitled to ???
@Declan Moran: How can someone harp on about something that has nothing to do with the problems we face. Its like swatting a fly while the country burns. Cop on and grow up. Change the record. No one believe the lies.
It turns my stomach to see what is happening in the Dail. It is sickening to see the elite pat each other on the back while the people of Ireland live in misery and poverty. The Capitalist exploitation of neo liberalism is destroying our people. The speeches in the Dail are a victory for the well off and the elite. Its a day of mourning for the ordinary man and woman of Ireland suffering under the greed of these politicians.
A sad for Ireland!
@Dante Marquinhos: hand on your hips, give it a push
@Dante Marquinhos:Bashir?
As Scrooge said “I see a crutch in the corner with no owner” that will be Leo crutch as this will all end in tears. Too many people left behind and starving. Leo speech has no vision, no plan and certainly nothing different from the last leader. New leader same policy.
So Boyd Barrett thinks it’s wrong to target welfare cheats. It’s damn right. How can anyone justify paying fraudster ? As for whomever voted for this Coppinger muppet needs their heads checked
@Declan Moran: The problem is making it seem like welfare fraud is a rampant problem. I don’t remember it exactly, but there was something like 10 incidents of it last year.
@Éamonn Flynn: ok Eamonn, i take your point. Still it’s 10 cases too many. Someone else is losing out as a result of another claiming fraudulently.
#leo reiterates that he will be Taoiseach of “a republic of opportunity, where everybody has a FAIR chance”. Surely therefore, SURELY he means he’ll repeal #FEMPI & stop robbing our children for banks’ social welfare?Maybe he means to return to his 2011 “not another red cent” promise and seek a write down of the Odious Depth illegally foisted upon our generations by his predecessors?“Opportunity” and “Fair” surely cannot mean doing anything else.
@Tim Nelligan: *Debt. Feckonomics and autocorrect, eh? Bad mix…
Don’t expect any great change since he announced that Frances Fitzgerald is doing a good job .   More of the same . I suspect that like Enda he’s just in it for the foto opportunities
Fred Jensen:any chance you could stop talking BS , 60 billion we gave banks, 14 billion apple owes us, our farmers are on 23.000 a year, if you believe that your dumber than I thought,   your problem is we look after our poor?   Tax cuts….  how about just collecting taxes fairly , ie apple.
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: then Apple leave followed by the rest of the multi nationals and we are back to being raped by priests.
The coronation of the blue queen has provided Richard Posner with stiff competition
Danny Healy Rae for Taoiseach.
Forget about Leo coming in……. Has Mr Nama Noonan departed yet??
One of the main problems our senior politicians have had is experience of this country, only. Few have ever worked abroad or were educated there – however, some of our public companies, like Bank of Ireland, are now looking further afield. Appointing the first female  CEO, with a considerable international background. Varadkar never left Dublin!
@Paul Foot: think he might have a bit of the subcontinent experience in him.
@Paul Foot: Only experience outside the Pale – a 6 month course in Washington. And now capable of running a European country¡¿
@Paul Foot: the main problem with our politicians is the fact that they are teachers farmers and doctors and not actually politicians. Useless shower the lot of them.
There’s nothing wrong with being a party that represents people who get up early in the morning.  There, I said it.
@Mrs parrott:  Very true. But is that a good description for Mr Varadkar? Only time will tell. And people who get up early in the morning to do what? That’s the question.
RIP Ireland.
We now live in a country where our very own Taoiseach is not allowed to donate blood.A lot more changes needed.
They are still Waffling!
How soon can we get rid of him?
These elected representatives are the worst I’ve seen giving speeches. They struggle with almost every fact in front of them. I guess it’s written by one of their staff, but how hard is it to familiarise yourself with information prior to a presentation.Elect inept people and you’ll have an inept government.
same sh!t,different EU puppet
@Fred Jensen: it has come to my attention that you were speaking to Fred Jensen.Can you please explain??????
Public don’t vote for the Taoiseach… Party on power elect a leader… That leader is usually Taoiseach
Yeah
Honestly I don’t mind this guy normally..but what a load of back slapping.. self congratulatory baloney. Just confirms that these people live in a Dail bubble. Speaking to each other rather than the electorate
What? Welfare cheats go camping?Don’t you just love the journals inability to spell.
T
More slime from blueshit  pond
@Brendan Keegan: clever
Please see below what experts think they could’ve spent the money on.
@Meekus: reducing our €200 billion national debt…
@Paul Foot: Nah. I pay enough taxes for that. I want to go to a gallery and furnish my mind with beauty instead.
@Meekus: Building a motorway between Cork and Limerick.
@Maxwell Eddizon:Pfft, what benefit would that bring to Dublin?
@Meekus: Im with Meekus. Money well spent. Amazing museum.
6 years to do the job. That’s the Office of Public Works for you. Ah sure why rush, need that two hour lunch break and finish by 4:30 as per union “entitlements”.
@Fred Jensen: I contacted them 3 weeks ago to ask if the community group I’m with could clean up a protected structure in the area and if so, what rules would we need to follow. The reply was we will process your request, please allow 20 working days for a reply, contact us again if you haven’t heard back in that time
@Darren Tully:20 days…in the private sector if you left a customer hanging for 20 minutes you’d be fired.
@Fred Jensen: Talking of which, have you seen the gravy train at the bridge over the Dodder in Ballsbridge?Works for the boys on the riverbanks have been going on for 3 or 4 years now.Complete scam. Given to the highest bidder with the longest project duration who clearly must be handing back a few brown envelopes to the awardee in the council.
@Fred Jensen: you’ve never been on to three or virgin media so
So what art is going to be in it? Anything good
@prop joe: didn’t you see the Turner prize – style installations in the photos? I thought the pile of builder’s rubble was especially eloquent about the Celtic Tiger, the collapse and the ghost estates.
@prop joe: for a country out size we’ve a great selection of works
@Keith Gregg: In our collection we have Picasso, Van Gogh, Vermerr, Rembrandt and others, not to mention the Caravaggio and massive amount of Irish art. It is a world class collection.
Eejits. Why waste money?!!!
A man who promised so much & delivery nothing! So much for the “so called ” Contract” he signed With the people of Ireland, remember that one? think he broke every one of them! Lets face it , its all a con anyway, our so called government are themselves been governed
@Colette Kearns: A story involving Enda Kenny. Thumb fisher fishes for thumbs by commenting that       (A) He is in some way involved in corruption (not specific). Optional addition: He should be jailed        (B) He is doing and/or has done nothing or general negative things (not specific)   (C) You are delighted he his leaving        (D) He has been taking instructions from Germany/Merkel/EU. Optional addition: he will be getting some job from them      (E) He is getting a large pension (not specific)
@Meekus:  Yes a bit like the comment looney left. No substance.
His farewell was as inspiring as was his leadership, Lacking in substance.
@Shane Murphy: Yah, little style, and even less substance !
Thank **** he’s finally gone
@Joe Smith: He only left through the door on the left but will be coming back in through the door on the right.   Just give him a few days to get over his hangover from the bar.
Good rithems to kenny . Clueless and not with reality & reality is poverty stillHigh despite so call recovery not to mention Health but most importantly infrastructure hasn’t really come along as they say it has . Kenny wasn’t the brains he had an advisor I’d say that where the brains were .leo will be interesting chapter but don’t foresee it lasting .
Fionnuala was certainly the power behind the throne. That dope wouldn’t find his shoes unless she put them in his hand.
He punched him on the shoulder to say thanks a mill for the unreal pension Hun!!! They are all corrupt and it’s never going to change
@Donnchadh Kurland: They are all corrupt? I hope you have evidence of this and e reported to the Gardai. Or do you just find politicians abhorrent because you don’t really know what they do, but you know they get well paid for doing it. In your eyes, this makes them “corrupt”
God speed Mr Kenny.
@Peter Cavey: to hell
It’s definitely time to move on from the Enda Kenny era. In his choices for the new Cabinet, Taoiseach-elect Leo Varadkar must stay true to the refreshing and enterprising vision that he outlined and won the Fine Gael leadership campaign on. He must appoint a Minister for Finance who shares his vision for a growing Ireland, an Ireland where levels of marginal taxation do not exceed 50 per cent and where we actually invest in economic infrastructure. In other words, Leo Varadkar, unlike Enda Kenny (and his finance minister, Michael Noonan), must be a Taoiseach for the young people of Ireland. Also, Varadkar’s ministerial choices should not be dictated by such old-fashioned concerns as “regional considerations”, but by merit and a shared vision.Dr Varadkar must learn the lessons of the recent British general election (lessons which, judging by the tone of his leadership campaign, I think the Taoiseach-elect sensed before they were manifested across the Irish Sea). Young people in Britain rebelled against the establishment because they are locked out of the housing market and, even if a young person has a college degree these days, they still find it extremely difficult to access a mortgage. This is unlike previous generations, where a decent Leaving Certificate would usually be enough for a person or a couple to be able to acquire a mortgage to buy their first little house. Today this is not possible, unless a mortgage applicant works as a civil servant!Many young people today struggle to attain secure employment. This, in addition to not owning a house, means that they don’t feel that they have much of a stake in society and aren’t going to get very far. The scourge of zero-hours contracts has to be tackled, we must restore a prosperous, enterprising society where young people feel that they are moving upwards and have a real stake in society. This means that it should not be so hard to purchase a mortgage and access a decent-paying job with consistent hours.The above issues were never understood by Enda Kenny and Michael Noonan, who were a Taoiseach and a Minister for Finance for old people. Kenny and Noonan’s whole existence at the top of Government was about protecting the pensions, wealth and job security of those who were already very secure in Ireland. To this end, Kenny and Noonan maintained high taxes on the young and enterprising, did nothing about the homelessness situation, never addressed the housing crisis with passion and had no interest in investing in proper transport infrastructure such as roads and an underground railway in our capital city. Noonan and Kenny were leading the Irish Nation into the arms of Sinn Fein and the extreme Left who, like Corbyn, would hoover up the votes of disillusioned, angry young people with superficial and un-costed policies that will promise the earth, moon and the stars.Leo Varadkar has a chance to solve the issues facing our young country, and save the centre ground of Irish politics which (under the visionless leadership of Enda Kenny and Michael Martin) is slowly being captured by the Far-Left. The Taoiseach-elect must seize this chance before it is too late and the next general election ushers Sinn Fein and People Before Profit/AAA into Government Buildings. To this end, Dr Varadkar’s cabinet (and particularly his finance minister) must reflect and share his vision.
@John Reid:I couldn’t even get through 3 lines of this without wanting to vomit.Varadkar’s own spin doctors would spit on this as the drivel it is.Either that, or they’re all in the Horseshoe Bar, laughing their asses off over another bottle of Bolly, at the kinda guff the Journal just regurgitates automatically.
Why did Enda need last week off?
@John Reid: Is the 800 character limit only for app users? That was 3190 characters..
@John Reid: you should get a hobby, too much time on your hands. Thank you Enda for your historical contributions to this country.
@Matty Killucan: Thought that was long too. Didn’t it used to be 1500 characters till a few weeks ago even with the newest app update? Please respond if you know or did I imagine this.
@John Reid:Absolute muck!!!
@John Reid: I look forward to your return to Earth John & the look of disappointment on your face when Leo lets you down with his ‘vision’!
@John Reid: how did you get around the 800 Journal barrier?
@John Reid: Nobody cares about varadkar only the parasites like him. Did you honestly think people are going to read that waffle.
He’ll be haunting the place for years to come,The Dail ,RTE and then his reward in Europe.For God’s sake Begone
Good statesman. Haters here forget the scandals and incompetence that were a feature of previous regiemes. Under Ahern and Cowen, the talk was all about brown envelopes, the Galway Tent and untraced lumps of cash. Under Kenny, we saw recovery of both our economy and international profile. Think back to what life was like in 2011 versus today. History will be kind to him and, though he didn’t get everything right, let’s have more like Kenny and less like Bertie & Biffo!
@Cheeky Bums: well said!!.
@Cheeky Bums: Good auld 2011 when we could actually afford rent and a mortgage before we entered the era of 10% increases a year.
@Dave time: I think you’ll find that two / three into a deep recession, we generally didn’t have money for rent plus mortgage back then. Also we had huge uncertainty around the housing market because prices fell so sharply from this highs of 2005 / 2006 / 2007…maybe you had loads of cash but I think it’s fair to say most people weren’t hopping up the property ladder two steps at a time.
@Cheeky Bums: He is worse than any Fianna Fail. Kenny showed the EU the Irish would bend over even easier.
@Cheeky Bums: This country is a hundred times worse now than then thanks to Kenny.
Let’s pray Merkel will do the same in September?
‘Opportunity’ he mentioned.What utter crap!!!He elbowed his way to the top, skullduggared his way to staying there, and having suckled at the breast of the tax payer, he had the brass balls to sit there today applauding the people who were teabagging him!!!Neck.Jockey’s.
@Eamonn O’Riain: What pornographic outrage!
@Eamonn O’Riain:  Well said
I really don’t understand the negative comments. Like it or not Enda inherited a country in an absolute mess in €130 billion of debt, he left a country booming. Jobs up, national debt down etc.
@Jonathan Gaffey: National debt is over 200 billion,thousands of ‘jobs’ are zero hour ,CE and jobridge which the people in them still have to apply for family income supplement. Yes he found the country in a mess and has made it worse except for the few of course.
@Jonathan Gaffey: Ye keep saying the same old crap he inherited this that and the other. Stop. Once he got it he continued the very same thing he inherited so he was worse than them.
Good bl€€ding riddance…you utter gobsh!te!!
The lot of them are a shower of hypocrits.
Of with you, incompetent can kicking nice guy Enda
Thank F * C K for that! Useless tool!!!!!
36 years sitting on a back bench doing nothing but getting perks then a massive near 400 thousand golden handshake and 140 thousand pension. No wonder he’s always laughing with  mock smile. Paid for NOTHING< Hate this country. Rewards and values useless people.
Did jerry adams just say he’ll miss enda kennys JIZZ …..what is goin on in leinster house
Best of luck to him,he done a great job
@Trevor Costello: Job? Sitting with a mock smile for 40 years. Is that a job.
Kenny has a nice EU commissioner role awaiting him in Brussels, which is his 30 pieces of silver for not burning the bondholders but burdened the Irish taxpayers with debt.
@Permo Dermo: that wasn’t him. Blame that lying bast@rd Brian Cowan for that
@jason bourne: Actually jason it was Enda “its not our debt” that put us on the rack,
@Permo Dermo:Please. The people who burdened the Irish taxpayers with debt were the public sector unions, who’s refusal to give an inch on their bloated pay and pensions during the recession led to a €20 billion annual deficit, every year. The bank bailout was small change compared to that.
@Fred Jensen: €20 > €64?? oh ya I forgot you’re probably using leprechaun economics.
@Fred Jensen: You are some moron aren’t you if you believe that. Aside from the incontrovertible fact that every public sector employee took a fairly hefty pay cut, one which is only now beginning to be only slightly undone, and had a public sector only pension levy applied, how could anyone forget that it was the failure of private sector organisations – banks and property developers among others – that caused the recession and economic collapse. Don’t be so daft
@Fred Jensen: Fred would you ever cop on to yourself.
Why wasn’t tosser listed.
Well this gombeen ever exit the stage.he sold out his own people in favour of the EU,has to be the most embarrassing leader ever
The sheer arrogance of the man, did the same when it came to announcing the date of the last General Election, flip-flopping around for months, unwilling to inform the Irish people when they would be allowed to cast their vote, forgetting that he is nothing more than a PUBLIC SERVANT. Should be in jail for treason.
Surely Seannachi-in-chief. I know a homeless fella on a bench in merrion square with a pint in each hand who will second him for the role, as soon as he’s finished phoning everyone to tell them how much extra water is in his taps thanks to fine gael.
He wasn’t good enough to be taoiseach never mind any of the other jobs. The fact that the EU people see him as a soft touch to advance their own objectives (hence all the EU praise) will rule him out for all of those jobs. I can’t remember one important decision he’s made in the 6 years he’s been taoiseach, except that  announcement for the immigrant vote referendum a few months back which will mean nothing to most of us.
@Adrian: The Aqueduct?
“Recently, there has been speculation that Kenny should be kept on as Brexit minister.”Why would we want “its not our debt” any were near important discussions…..
40 years as a TD, stayed under the radar for 30 odd years collecting his wages and then spent the past few years keeping his masters in Brussels happy to make sure he gets a plum job in Europe. He’s done very well for “himself” and will be looked after while phase two austerity continues to be implemented under stealth taxes and lack of investment in public services. That’s his legacy and as long as the Irish people continue to FF/FG, many more entitled TD’s will enrich themselves on the back of the gullible Irish voter.
While he collects his Taoiseach’s massive pension pot and then the 100k lump sum and the 30k a year teachers pension, he can think about it.
Prison cell
@Jonathan Yeo: so it’s a crime to save a country from economic ruins?
@Negan: lol
@Negan: what planet are you on, I’d like to visit for a few hours.
What about absolute waster?
Quentin Tarantino is looking for a new gimp for Pulp Fiction 2
Would his incompetence be put up with anywhere else.
@William Clay: Only in the EU…..
He could get a job working for Dinny?Like Cowan did.
Who would have him the circus wouldn’t take him!!
@vinnie Monaghan. Cos he already holds that job title.
He should be booted out of politics.
Why doesn’t he volunteer and dosomething worthwhile ? Why a job with a big salary and yet another pension?
A bog in his beloved mayo,,bury him in it
@Shane O Malley: Shane with a name like O Malley at u sure u wouldn’t like to be buried with him.
@Shane O Malley: Yes he should go back to mayo & cut turf, at least he would be doing something constructive & not costing the taxpayer more money
Backbencher?
@Dylan McKane: backstabber you mean surely
Go back teaching-ar u. Joking-he couldn’t teach a donkey.He will b over in the canaries rubbing the sun cream onto Finnullas back.
Enda wants the private lick arse job to Merkel.
The Daily Edge is policing stupid words now! Really?? Hold on while I “drop” another word. Hopefully it will “slay” #boss
I’m just surprised they didn’t find a way to cram a reference to the abortion debate into this article. First time for everything.
Remember in the good old days when a word could have more than one meaning and context counted for something.
I’ve never actually heard “jizz” used in this context.
@Aaron Kavanagh: I’ve actually never heard “jizz” at all before. Sounds like a shite word anyway.
Maybe Enda will “come” to Gerrys house and give him some jizz if he’s going to miss it that much. I
He’d a fair bit of spunk in him, that enda fella
Unbelievable that is has taken so long for these brave men to be recognized
@Mike Cantwell: It really is. Congratulations to them all.
@Mike Cantwell: About time.
@Mike Cantwell: Its about time that this country recognize these men for their bravery with the UN in the Congo.
I’d urge anyone who hasn’t seen the brilliant Siege of Jadotville movie to do so. Was left feeling both immense pride and anger, especially after doing a bit of reading on the subject…..en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siege_of_Jadotville
@The Risen:Great film. Wonderfully understated direction.
The book brought their story to public attention. Declan Power the author has written articles on the Journal if I’m not mistaken.
@Hurt Stoogie: if I failingly support them how come I don’t support them on so many issues?
@Hurt Stoogie: stick to the story you mupp@t….
@The Risen: a brilliant movie
@The Risen: you can watch on Netflix available
This has been too long in coming. These men fought bravely, competently & acquitted themselves in the face of overwhelming odds in the face of a battle tested foe without loosing a single soldier in this engagement. Then they were treated as pariahs when they returned home which must have been the ultimate betrayal. They were probably treated better in captivity than they were when they came home.
@Matt Donovan: Are the actors getting an award too I wonder?
@Siouxsie Dumbtime: ?
@Matt Donovan: actually, they were treated appallingly while captured which makes the recognition doubly deserved.
@Siouxsie Dumbtime:I think you should get a medal for outstanding ignorance
Should of been awarded years ago! These men really proved the Irish army are one of the best trained army’s in the world
True Irish men. Brave and moral boys of oglaigh na hEireann. Glad they’ve been recognised at last.
I have known Michael Tighe for forty years and never knew he had fought at Jadotsville. What a very brave man. The medels are long overdue and well deserved. 180 of our soldiers held off a force of hundreds inc. mercenaries. Between 300 and 350 of the enemy killed and only 4 of our soldiers wounded. Amazing. You’ll never beat the Irish!!.
Very sad that so many have passed away before they finally got the recognition they deserve from the state, ln the 60s the children of our country were crying out for hero’s these men were denied the chance to be those heros for a younger generation
And too right  …what a cover-up
And they are handing out medals to our sailors for picking up refugees in boats. As difficult as the sailors task is it’s nothing compared to what these very brave lads did. Then again didnt Conor Cruise O Brien play a part in this this disgraceful period of our history.
A remarkable story of bravery and courage and a story thst was left to long to be told.People like to look down their noses at the Irish army and make snide remarks about them but they are very well trained and very capable too.
@Derek Lyster:Capable of fightin their granny’s.
@Con Murphy:You are a cynical disgust
@Con Murphy: you should be ashamed of yourself. You’re not fit to polish my boots.
Should have kept the Cruiser alive to see this day
Well done to all the men of the 35th battalion who’s lives changed after the Congo. Medals well deserved.
About bloody time.. !!! Well done A company… men like you guys make me proud as a father that my son served with the UN..
Well done to all the men of the 35th Battalion who’s lives changed after the Congo. Medals so well deserved.
Good ol’ Conor Cruise O’Brien !
About time too. Company A fought like tigers, Out gunned & numbered and with remarkably few casualties for such a ferocious battle.  These men were dishonored by successive Irish governments for so long by the refusal to acknowledge their bravery and sacrifice…for shame.
https://goo.gl/0LgqXzSiege of Jadotville audio documentary.  Sound clips of Leo Quinlan, Walter Hegarty, John Gorman and Michael Whelan.  Created by Irish Life and Lorehttp://www.irishlifeandlore.com
Oh joy, that story just made my day, heroes all, long long overdue.
That was the Irish army of times past, now they sit around smoking pot and complaining about the wages.
@Dave Hogan: ya think?
@Dave Hogan: idiot
@Dave Hogan: gobs@##e
@Dave Hogan: Men and Woman working in the defense forces deserve more wages. We  could see them on the streets or on our shores before long the way this crazy world is right now. Don’t forget all they do: Protection, humanitarian missions, helicopter and fixed wing Air Ambulance, peacekeeping, and standby for essential services to name a few. Congratulations to these soldiers receiving their medals. Long overdue
@Dave Hogan: Dave, I’ll come over to you and get you out of your bed at 4.30 hrs and bring you up to the Wicklow mountains and spend the day searching the body parts and see how you feel, especially if we find some or perhaps when the counrt people are under 4 feet of water, you might spend a day and night trying to save they’re homes and livestock. If that doesn’t show you that the military do not sit around smoking pot and complaining about the wages, maybe a stint on an overseas mission away from your family & friends might change your mind…..unless you have walked in our footsteps,….
@Dave Hogan: muppet.
@Dave Hogan: how about i bring you out at 5am for a loaded route march for 10k. See how funny you are then.
@Paul Clarke: you won’t get me, I start work at 3.30.
An absolutely disgraceful act of circling the wagons to save that egotist Connor  Cruise O Briens catastrophic misjudgements….About bloody time…fair play to those brave  men
Delighted  for one and all, heroes everyone of them
To little to late for some while I send congratulation to the men and there families on the news ,this shouldn’t have happen in first place these were true fighting Irishmen that should have made the Irish defence force proud ,they stood there ground against the odds yet government of the time and others treated them like cowards when the real cowards were those that sent them into that conflict in first place.To all the men that fought in that siege those alive and those that passed on history should be rewritten to say you were hero’s not cowards .And if no one has seen the movie on Netflix I recommend it as gives you rough idea what this was all about and the hardship our brave men had to deal with and the stupidity of there superiors.
Well over due and an amazing piece of history. Well done.
What a load of nonsense.
Test
He was visionless and passionless, except in the pursuit and retention of political power.
If Enda is your political hero, you obviously need a day out from your secure ward.
all enda did was heap a debt on to the children of this state enda and noonan will not be missed
@Tony Daly: he was desperately trying to make a quote that would stick, make himself memorable in some way. But he tried so many times, he failed miserably!
@Bobby Phelan: Noonan Looked after Limerick/Shannon Airport, and nobody else.
@Ben Coughlan: And fair play to him-the country needs Shannon Airport-there’s more to this country than the Red Cow to Dublin.
@Tony Daly: parish pomp politics thats exactly whats wrong with this state Tony.Noonan is a snake nothing more.
Good riddance, can’t stand the sight of him.
@Jonny Irish: The grin of an extreme gombeen is Enda in that pic. He is the Father Dougal in the Dail along with Tory boy Leo (remember him in Harry Enfield-”Increase mother? I seen no improvement in your productivity and your cooking and cleaning is below par”. Watch Leo in Harry Enfield 31 sec clip outside a dole office. That is so Leo as a young political 13 year old right winger in the making.
@abcyz: what are you talking about ‘Tory’ boy?
Like Charlie he can claim to have done the state some service,  dishing out the pain ,  while enjoying the Rolls Royce salary and pension.  The banks , the EU, and the Commissioner will miss him.
Ask not what you can do for your country but what your country can do for you. Sums Enda up.
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: Well, would do the Job?
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: Rolls Royce salary ?  Not a hope daithi on his salary
42 years in the Dail, 6 years as ‘leader’ thanks to a pack of false promises, and whats his legacy?Child poverty doubled, homelessness national emergency, trolley crisis, 40 years of banker debt handed to our kids and grandkids, the gap between rich and poor continuing to widen. And all this while the number of millionaires more than doubles and the haves and have mores laugh all the way to the bank.
@The Risen: that goes with also the fact he created this ” oh the value of houses went up! And rent rising at same time he gave full power to bankers to go ahead and throw people out of their homes and also sell out to vulture funds .This is the same man who said tax someone’s home was immoral and that’s the first thing he did .He also ignored long enough the economical related suicides whilst taxing and levying the poor penalising the working poor and his ministers for economy and social protection cut people off their benefits with no explanation to reduce numbers to show Angela  Merkel . He invented a so called recovery that does not exist . And perpetuated this lie funded by all this money he took off the people .While the rich bought new cars went on holiday and have a life
@The Risen: Nicely summed up The Risen. Between your post and Wilhelmina’s post just about wraps this brave “leader” up.Its just a pity nobody has the balls to tell him like it is on his last day.As incompetent as he was, where would he be if it wasn’t for his earpiece?
@The Risen: At last we agree on something.
@The Risen: He resigns and the Virgin Mary appears at Knock??? Strange lol.
“Expect plenty of tributes and kind words”. Of course because there are very few in this country who have the courage in this to call a spade a spade.Enda Kenny brought Fianna Fail back into the fold. Enda Kenny put Enda Kenny before the country and not for the first time.
@Dante Marquinhos: did they not already have that fawning when he did leaders questions. How many times so they need to do it? He was not worse that the previous FF taoiseach, but it would be hard to be that corrupt or selfish. Nothing achieved on his watch that could not have been delivered by a headless chicken. Noonan, on the other hand, can rot in whatever hole or board he ends up in.
Should be in jail for suppressing instead of implementing findings of #MoriartyTribunal and rewarding corrupt crony with billions of state assets inc #SiteServ #Topaz #IrishWater -water meter contracts (still ongoing) contracts worth one billion alone -plus ordering all state agencies inc garda, armed forces, judiciary etc to buy their fuel from…Topaz. Corruption of the highest order.Meanwhile corruption eats at the soul of our society as the rich and the well-connected walk free from our politicised, biased courts.NO ONE A SHOULD BE ABOVE THE LAW.
Soon to be rewarded with an EU role for his service.
Endas face in the pic just shows the contempt he holds us in with the banking debt he let EU foist on us with no process on the gamechanger himself and champagne socialist Eamon Gilmore announced nearly 5 years ago to the day now.Also that smug smile is the contemptuous face of smug Enda’s massive lump sum & massive pension after himself & Labour liers especially Joan,Rabbitte & Gilmore shamelessly only went after the poorest & most ill citizens during their 5 regressive budgets from 2011-16. FF had two thirds of the cuts done before FG&Labour & FF atleast where alot fairer in their austerity but still awful.Listen to security analysis Tom Clunen on last Tuesdays RTE Late Debate giving a really dignified account of his disabled son & the cuts that Enda and Leo foisted on them 2011-16.
Good crop of whingers on here today.
@Powerabbey: Good crop of realists on here today
@John Ryan: we can see the truth we feel it in our pockets struggling away to keep going on the richy rich the plastic Torys the FG supporters their “reality” is way diverse from the real deal here
@John Ryan: you are a loyal whinger.
Worst of luck to him in the future
Thank the God’s, now lets call for a GE  before the sky is painted.
Good riddance to enda Kenny,he was a terrible taoiseach,and brought shame on the office.
Dear Enda,Thanks very much for all you’ve done for me and my friends.I will be eternally grateful to you.Good luck in your retirement.Your buddySeanie FitzP.S. See you in Marbs soon.
Never a fan. Didn’t envy what he faced. His best moment was schooling Trump in front of the world.
@Honeybadger197: LOL! What, the same trump he pilloried when it looked like hilary was going to win?
@The Risen: Did you miss the speech? I recommend you watch it:https://youtu.be/Aja2QnROOhs
@Honeybadger197:  Of course I watched it. American sitcoms are some of my very favourite things….
@The Risen: Where was the humour? I must have missed that bit?
@Honeybadger197:  Yep.
@The Risen: You’ve lost your edge jammin’.  Enjoy retirement :)
@Honeybadger197: the hippocritical speech given by a man whose government oversee’s direct provision? Yeah, vest moment. Cynical move by a cynical man who should be pilloried not plauded.
Nauseating listening to the likes of Martin and Adams talking about him like he is the saviour of Ireland. They should take a look at the mess he is leaving behind him.
@Eamonn Sheen: just goes to show that despite all the posturing, Adams/sf  are the same as the rest of them. Fg/fg/lab/sf – party and self interest/gain before people.Will no one stand up and call him and that leech noonan for what they are? Is there no one?
@William Clay: they are all alike . Like divorce lawyers they say one thing this week another next and then go out to lunch together on your dough .
Enda will be missed by all. He led the cleaned up and the mess left behind by FF. A true Irishman who will be up there with Dev & Michael Collins in our history books
@Matt Taylor: “He will be missed by all “-Are u for real-He will be missed all right-like a pain in the head.
@Bennythekid: yes by all. He was a powerful Commander in Chief. Sad day
@Matt Taylor: He couldn’t command a piss up at a brewery.
@Matt Taylor: FF destroyed the economy of the country, of that there is no doubt. Enda Kenny destroyed society.The biggest liar, fantasist, friend of banks, vulture funds and corporations the country has ever seen. A sell out to Europe, a big friend of Dobby, keep him from facing the  consequences of the Moriarity Tribunal.We can add a friend of the corrupt.Contemptuous of the ordinary citizens.
@Matt Taylor: Deluded moron.
@Matt Taylor:a coward and an a**lick.He’ll miss himself.
Thats nice of himmaybe after he can meet the The man with two pints and have a chat, you know about the Army and the banks and those sort of stories!
Watching the footage of Frances “Satan” Fitzgerald sitting beside Kenny makes me feel profoundly nauseous
His own ministers stabbed him in the back, ousted him and are now lining up to heap praise on him. Varadkar was the worst of them. Tried to wriggle out of the Dept of Health because it was too tough and was putting him in the limelight in a negative way.  Affecting his chances of taking out the boss.  Now listen to him. Enda’s practically the best thing that happened the country since the electric grid.   What a sneaky, conniving little man. Thankfully he’s only going to be in the job until FF pull the plug in November.
@Tommy Roche: If only we could depend on FF but Mehole Martin hasn’t the guts to call an election. He’s now into bullying the smaller parties for having too much speaking time. But they are elected by the people so have a right to speak. Even if it Shite talk
Sickening stuff from a man who promised so much and delivered so little. The mans legacy will be paid for by our great grandchildren…
Thank goodness for the Tusla/Maurice McCabe scandal for forcing IndaKinny out of the FG leadership & his job. If he hadn’t been caught out for telling one lie too many, he would have still been Taoiseach tomorrow, that’s for sure!
Enda’s idea of Ireland has only 26 counties. He’s no patriot.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: What’s your solution so, take them back against the wishes of the people living in them? That’ll go down well.
@Scundered: As opposed to your solution of keeping the country divided against the wishes of the people? Cos that went well too didn’t it?
@Tír Eoghain Gael: wishes of the people???
Sold out to euro banks no balls
A career politician who could hardly string 6 words together ,gone to enjoy his pensions or get onto a board of  a large company that pays very little tax in Ireland , Good riddance to him
His egoistical speech akin to Haugheys“I’ve done the country a service and they know it ”Utter poppycock
For the amount of people that whinge about him, some of you must have voted him in. So deal with the consequences.
Utterly repulsive man, those who followed the gravy train and had they’re snouts in the trough were looked after, everyone else was shafted, water charges, austerity, garda scandal etc, etc, etc could be here all evening one of the worst of all time
All European countries even Britian would be glad to have such a prime minister…Much better than Cameron and with help of Trioca got economy out of recession…Biggest mistake was not having Senate vote again when people made such a stupid decision…
@John003: He followed the troika plan agreed with FF, and it was the hard work and suffering of the masses which turned things around while enda was having his head rubbed.Yeah, some achievement all right…..
@The Risen: Yes we know SF would have done so much better……Masses should try Northern Ireland where SF used to be in power  dole is half what it is here
@John003: don’t worry wait and see “the Europe “will have him he will get himself a nice cushy €€€€ Jobie in Brussels just like them others do
All the tributes he go today from TDs from all sides is not reflected in the comments from the common men and woman of this battered country.
@Francid Dooley: that’s because they all have big fat pensions to look forward to and sure they’re all going on their jolly days soon ….sure why would you be in a bad mood sure school’s almost out for all the ex teachers…..
Good riddance glad to see the back of him
Hopefully its quickest good bye and hopefully wont have to listen to his bullshit lies anymore
@Richard Doherty: nah we be listening to that other evil despicable tw*t another Margareth Tatcher wanna be Varadkar. While we listening his ministers will empty our already empty pockets and instead of “tightening your belt ”  this time he will say – eat your belt . Cause there be no chance of you being allowed pay bills and stupid invented double taxes and levies that he will come up with . While his mates the rich are having fun with your money
His favourite dinner was a dry roast… that is not acceptable best he’s gone.
Well this is something, the last time I saw something as rabid as  this was the Brexit crowd who complained about everything but stood for nothing and their politicians have been trying to deal with it ever since.  It is a strange combination of being conformists and contrarians at the same time but such a stance come from those who have convictions about everything  as long as it creates chaos – sort of parish politics on steroids.
I’d like to strike a balance here. Clearly he’s not everyone’s friend but he did do some good in my opinion.The country was a shit show when he took over. Steadied the ship and left us all better off whether you like it or not. It’s a fact.
A disgrace to the Country
@niall: Some whingers must have voted him in though
A true f**kin eejit
A village idiot
@Robbie Redmond: Now IndaKinny’s free to take up the job as some village in his homeland of Mayo is crying out for someone like him!
What exactly is he doing in that picture? Suggestions anyone?
A coward a criminal and an idiot.Inflicted austerity on the weakest, caused suicide,evictions, emigrated thousands. Enjoy your 20 pensions gangster!
Ridiculous picture shows a bias in this supposed unbiased piece. Cheap.
The man with 2 pints in one hand????????????????????????????????????
He was a reluctant TD and an accidental Taoiseach, that is about the kindest thing I can say about him..
Narcissistic fool. Was in attendance at one of his talks and as soon as he was finished he was away with the fairies for the rest of the function paying no attention whatsoever to the other speakers who included the tainaiste. In a complete world of his own. Spineless and weak. If he truly was a leader we’d be paying for and conserving water by now. Instead he leaves behind as big a mess and he found.
Cue abuse
42 years, Jesus wept. It’s high time term limits were put on TD’s, you accumulate a lot of people you owe ‘favours’ in that time.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: And the ability to fire them when they blatantly lie. How we allow corrupt liars to stay in place is beyond me? Promised political reform but not a peep since. Democracy is dead and we just watch on as the elite  consolidate their wealth and power. They laugh at us as they stroke their clueless sheep’s little egos and send them off to do their bidding.
@TheHeathen: We have the ability to fire them…just don’t vote for them.
@Fozz: Are you that deluded?! We don’t have the ability to fire them. They have their couple of thousand troglodytes that vote for them no matter what they do and they will always get past the post. If people are naive enough to think we control them then we truly are helpless.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: couldn’t agree more. Term limits on all elected representatives.
@TheHeathen: If we got off our backsides, used our vote and voted them out. Then you’d see them dance, but we sit at home and moan about the results afterwards.
@TheHeathen: We can fire them every time there’s an election.
@Fozz: there should be a mechanism in place to recall a TD when the electorate is not satisfied with the performance. Then the Party seat can be replaced by another Member of the same Party by constituency election.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Do you have to invoke the name of Jesus in this way to make your comment.
Jesus christ, “we should use our vote”?  If we could use our votes to fire them how come it’s hasn’t happened yet? Irish people suffer from a form of stockholm syndrome. Look at this article for example, arse kissing at it’s best.
@TheHeathen: Not defending Kenny personally I think he is absolutely no loss & he is equally as bad as FF for his cronies but we the people of Ireland have to look at ourselves when we elect people who have committed a crime (Tax fraud) as is the case with Mick Wallace. He got elected twice & has absolutely no respect for the office he was elected to. He is only concerned with himself & couldn’t care less about those who elected him. If you committed a crime like this revenue would have you in prison
Thank God and good riddance
@Colm Moran: this article ignores the fact Labour where neck and neck with Fine Gael From  08 to 11. I will never know how naive the Labour leadership was to go into coalition with a conservative party like Fine Gael. Self interest tops political principle I suppose. But to me that is his greatest achievement.  He must be laughing at those suckers everyday.
They’re all talking about how “great” kenny was on the TV now, but they don’t think he’s fit for the job! The credibility of the whole lot of them right now is being spectacularly shattered!
That’s a hard one. What did he do?????????
@Adrian: quite a lot but you begrudges just won’t acknowledge any of it.
@Negan: quite a lot of damage, I’ll acknowledge that! And surely if he was doing an adequate job, he wouldn’t be forced to resign.
@Negan: His Dail speech on the Cloyne report, ”  where the swish of a soutane smothered conscience and  humanity ”And his Patrick ‘s day speech in front of Donald Trump which went viral, viewed more than 30 million times .Can’t deny him that ………….
@judy burke: Talk is cheap. It’s even cheaper when it’s coming out of a politician’s mouth.
@judy Burke… you hardly believe he wrote that stuff himself do you? Such serious delusion is surely not possible.
@Negan: Well I guess if you’re wealthy then yes he did a lot for you. I’m sure it was worth his while one way or another.
Do you really believe they were his words? A good speech writer and delivered by an average public speaker.
@Adrian: In 1975 he came across as a bit of a dope. Then he got slowly worse.
His legacy will include his cold blooded refusals to meet survivors of Ireland’s Mother and Baby homes and defending the nuns and Catholic church who neglected over 6,000 babies to death.
@Paul J. Redmond: vile crook of a man
@Paul J. Redmond: don’t forget about the bank’s
@Linda Hughes: man with 2 pints tanks at ATM imaginary conversation with other TDs ect ect
Lies, cover ups, frauds. Mass emigration, record levels of patients on trollies and homelessness. The targeting of the sick and poor in cuts, removal of medical cards from sick children and the elderly, USC, Irish water, eircode. All this achieved when he led the country all be it like Pinocchio on string, what he achieved in the 42 years, a big pension. So long Enda, the clown prince of mayo.
@robert lester: inept, uncaring piece of **it  so glad the bugger is going
Enda Kenny looked after the powerful, wealthy and the privileged at the expense of the weak, poor, sick and disadvantaged. In his own terms, that was a great success.He was a Taoiseach for some of the people but not for those who needed a visionary and egalitarian minded politician.
He and Fine Gael will be remembered as the party that consolidated FFs sellout of the country when even the Troika felt the deal was too harsh.You are as bad as Aherne and Cowan
@Kevin Slater:But the deal was done before his time? How was it his fault he had to follow through with it?
now a choice between coveney, the connected bilderburger, or vararakar, the socially liberal, pro wealthy elite conservative. God help us.
Kenny will be known as the man who sold his soul and the rest of Ireland Inc to stay in power!
Great news Kenny is gone. Now  take that yoke Noonan with you.
Endas personal TV channel on RTE is talking about him as if he was christ almighty. Sharon neeee vo lawn is a right tool bag. She is full of Sh*t like the rest of RTE Fianna Gael. Its stomach churning looking at the mentally challenged Fianna Gael supporters. A grenade in the middle of them.
@Christopher Gardiner:I’ll only ever remember him as Europes yes boy. An institutionalised fumbling liar who only ever put himself and the welfare of his beloved party first. He never had the character or the qualities to be a leader and neither has either of the two default stooges in waiting.
@Tweed Cap: Exactly
@Christopher Gardiner: Ha. “He worked very hard”. A lot of us work an awful lot harder only to see our hard earned cash vanishing on taxes and poor gov policy of inflating house prices.
@Christopher Gardiner: you are very deluded
@Christopher Gardiner: RTE is the government mouthpiece.
All this hate he is receiving here is unfair. He took over from an absolute mess and got rid of the troika but of course the looney lefties will continue to slate him. Hope he will enjoy his retirement.
@Eamon: And the deluded will keep praising him!
@Eamon: he got rid of the troika?? really? by forcing gamblers private debt onto the working irish people for generations to come while forcing austerity onto his own people at the same time, he’s Europe’s little sock puppet and a disgrace to Ireland
@Eamon: We’re not looney lefties you Pri*k. We are not blindfolded like you. He was a parasite.
@Eamon: he is a traitor
@Eamon: typ
@Chicken George: typical response from the usual idiots. Look at the country now compared to when he took over. Although not without his faults his legacy will be that he left the country a hell of a lot better than when he started
@Eamon: He’ll enjoy his retirement alright since he feathered his nest very well. Others won’t have such a nice retirement and don’t tell me that he worked hard for it unless you mean worked a room full of wealthy FG donors.
@Eamon: “Hope he enjoys his retirement” ?  You are having a laugh. This self-serving gombeen has presided over more homelessness that this country has endured since 1922. Mass emigration by our best young people, most of whom will make a life elsewhere. The destruction of the health service and instead of standing up for  the country sold us out to the banks and bondholders. Has full confidence in a police service where corruption is accepted. Disgusting man.
His legacy will include his cold blooded refusals to meet survivors of Ireland’s Mother and Baby homes and defending the nuns and Catholic church who neglected over 6,000 babies to death.
Are you not over egging the omelette with your reluctant Taoiseach description . It was like all his wet dreams came together when he was appointed. I give you credit for the other half of your headline, he certainly was reluctant to leave.
@Just Me: Would the leader of any party not want to be taoiseach?
@Honeybadger197: Use your cop on , that’s if you have any. I was referring to the headline, not his personal choice . In your haste to be clever you forgot to engage your brain.
@Just Me: You’ve missed my point completely. Have a canberry juice.
He delivered for Fine Gael that’s the problem with the 2 main political parties – they don’t deliver for the country or the people just the party they serve and to line their own pockets. A taoiseach who never led his country only slowly reacted and did what he was told.
@Podge: He delivered nothing for Ireland. He turned this country back to the 50′s. Backwards its gone under his watch.
@Christopher Gardiner: how so? I’m genuinely looking forward to your answer to this. How is Ireland today even remotely comparable to Ireland of the 50s?
@Dan Morgan:  It’s a broken country with no money or morals
what legacy -one of the biggest con artists in the history of the state.
He crippled us with depth that was not ours.He STOLE 4.2 Billion from private pensions.He took medical cards from those in need.He took the Home package from the OAPS.He  abolished the death grant.He destroyed our health service.He caused the greatest homelessness in history.He led the Irish Tory Party.
@Tony Hartigan: And he handed over vast tracts of land and property to the culture funds – and for low or no tax.
Enda becoming Taoiseach was a case of right place, right time. It didn’t matter who was leading the party. It wasn’t a pro Fine Gael vote as they try to claim but an anti Fianna Fail vote. Enda won the death election after his father died and parish pump kept him there. What are his achievements in those 42 in politics?As for the recovery, he was implementing Fianna Fail policies put into by Brian Lenihan.Is it any wonder how easily Fianna Fail are forgiven when people can easily wrap the actualities of the situation to gladly accept the lie and continue to live in ignorance.
Good riddance
Marriage equality. Respect to him for that
@Soccer T’s: Don’t even think of giving him credit for that. The likes of David Norris was working for decades to achieve that not the vegetable enda.
@Soccer T’s:  I recall him reluctantly coming out in support of the issue…didn’t he fall over a plant pot once when trying to avoid the issue?.  As much as labour disappointed me, credit where credit is due, Labour and in particular Eamon Gilmore really fought for that to be brought through.  That should be very much part if their legacy, not so much Fine Gael.
@Soccer T: Marriage equality. Respect to the people who voted in favour of it.
Headline is a blatant lie. What reluctance. He lied through his teeth to get into power and said he’d leave months ago. He had to be dragged out of power.
Worst taoiseach in the history of the state never engaged with us the common folk
@Martin O Donnell: I really think that is unfair tbh. He wasn’t the greatest by any measure, but he was dealt a shit hand and country has really turned around on his watch. Whether that was almost his doing or not is debatable but it’s wrong to say he was the worst ever
The Accidental Taoiseach, blundered into the post due to the congruence of Fine Gael meltdown which gifted him the leadership, just as Fianna Fail crashed the good ship Ireland into the rocks! He has been blundering about the deck ever since, having his belly rubbed by Merkel and his hair tousled by Sarkozy while yelping at the deck hands to work harder and longer for less! His legacy? Well history will judge him!
A 60 year dept plan is he legecy.
@james cullen: I bet only the interest will be paid off and not the debt???
Do people forget the state of the country and where it was heading when he took over?
@Carol Dee: Yes but you obviously don’t remember they were Fianna Fail policies he was implementing. You remember, those guys that Enda spent his whole first term blaming on everything rather than actually answering any questions. Those same guys in Fianna Fail that are now in coalition in everything but name with Fine Gael.
@Terry: Fair enough and I won’t claim to know a whole lot about the ins and outs of politics but I just think the damage Fianna Fail had done meant no matter who took over it was never going to be an easy to repair the damage.  I just fear the same thing will happen again, people seem to have short memories and don’t tend to learn from past mistakes
@Carol Dee: It’s also worth remembering that both Fine Gael and Labour were calling for even more reckless spending while in opposition to Fianna Fail. People do seem to have very short memories but that goes mostly for Enda and Fine Gael who brought Fianna Fail back into the fold so Enda could achieve his personal ambition of becoming the first Fine Gael Taoiseach to serve consecutive terms.There are no past mistakes, this is blatant corruption and Enda presided over a lot of it.
@Carol Dee: you praise enda Kenny while claiming not to know the ins and outs of politics and that people have short memories. People like you are the reason the likes of enda stay in power.
Surviving the heaves against him has a strong Charlie Haughey touch – Fionnuala learned a few things from her time close to The Boss!
Thanks be to God.
Legacy!!!! lol, just get out Enda you prize clown
At last the Traitor is going, probably to a nice little earner in the EU after selling the Irish people out to his EU buddies.A disgusting man.
He’s taking over as manager of the Mayo team apparently….Mayofor…..
What legacy, glad to see the back of him,
Enda Kenny’s quality of leadership was such, that he would only be followed out of curiosity and even that is doubtful.
Don’t let this distract you from the fact that in 1972, a crack commando unit was sent to prison by a military court for a crime they didn’t commit. These men promptly escaped from a maximum security stockade to the Los Angeles underground. Today, still wanted by the government they survive as soldiers of fortune. If you have a problem, if no one else can help, and if you can find them….maybe you can hire The A-Team.
A living oak
And shove your water meters up your hole as well !
@karl: you dont drink any free water i presume karl???!!! He was right about the whingers.   Plenty of them around. I have not much and im getting old but i have the right attitude. Its a positive one and i earned all i have since i Left home with nothing 34 yrs ago .  just a positive attitude will get you a long way
@Kevin Ryan: No such thing as free water, there never was. Maybe you should use that positive attitude towards informing yourself.
It’s not all bad. The saviour leo the lion, is waiting in the wings to lead us to the promised land. You’ve seen nothing yet, wait till he leaves the whole country in the same state he left his last two portfolios. Currently looking under cardboard boxes on dame Street for welfair fraudsters so I’m told.
A total hypocrisy.fg member’s that wanted him gone,for good reason, praising him today.
@@mdmak33: talk about hypocrisy, liberals here commenting on how he done nothing. Where were Gerry Adams or Paul Murphy during the negotiations after the election? Yous don’t want to be in power, you just want to sit on the sidelines complaining about lack of progress.
Property tax, water charges, debt that is kicked down the road like an old can for the next generation to pay, USC and a search engine full of scandals but Merkel probably has a job for him now?
And Sarkozy was a little bo…x, seeing his photo there…
Same old Same old
Have to admit I didn’t bother to read the article. Glad the wa*ker has stepped down but unfortunately there’ll be another wa*ker to take his place because they’re all self serving in FG.
The biggest CLOWN that Ireland ever produced!! An embarrasment to the country!!
Austerity,IW and the best lick arse in the eu
A lot of the people here are the unique form of Irish Socialist. Reduce taxes but increase spending. It doesn’t work. Considering where we were in 2011 with unemployment rocketing, unable to borrow, banks 2 months from complete shutdown, tax take plummeting, what has happened in this country over the last 5 years, the recovery to where we are, has been almost unbelievable.
@sean o’dhubhghaill: what recovery exactly?
Enda was Mr. Shallow. Politically void. A Mayo cute hoor capable of small town ruthlessness when back against the wall.
Sure we didn’t lose a cancer cure,He won’t have to go on FAS or start laying blocksHis cronies in Brussels have a cushy one lined up for him
Good bye!!!! Enda sick and tried of FG
@Martin Laird: it will only benefit FG!
Why is it always reluctant taoiseach, surely he wanted the job.
@prop joe: that’s all he ever wanted. You don’t stay in a job for 40 years, without actually having something to show for it, if you don’t have your eye on the prize.
As Bonaparte might have said he was lucky and that qualified him with a C+ grade as Taoiseach in my estimation when one considers he welded FG together from meltdown and then steered the country through economic disaster while in coalition government. Pity about the photo shoots though!
All I’ve ever known is Enda as leader of FG. In just that young.
Great leader
Reluctant basically…. Good riddance
in fairness he has nice hair
@Bairéid Rísteard: Because I’m worth it… the pensions lol.
So much blind hate on here tells me more about the poster than endawas enda great, no,was he a reincarnation of hitler, no,if he’s blamed for everything the was wrong in his reign, equally you have to give him credit for what was good, growth, unemployment drops, equality in marriage etc…
He was irelands jfk
@Colm Cassidy: Yes your right, jammy fcuking knob.
His so called sucessfull 5 point plan was lies so how journal can say this is crazy  one water system could be repaired by billions put into irish water which should never happened he promised to burn bond holders more lies he said cut waiting lists in hospitals have increased we have property crisis health care shambles and people living in hotels how could the journal be objective and say sucessful leader considering all this
Well the comments sums him all up! Spot on…. and yet he leaves with a big fat pension and us in a big mess! Families are homeless, people are still struggling everyday.
Just another quintessential stroke politician achieving his lifetime goal of nailing his fat cat ludicrous pension compliments of the decent irish people he failed so miserably.Good riddance indeed
Thirty odd years of doing feck all then carried out the deal FF made with the troika.
Really? Worst leader we have ever had? That is deluded. Of course to mention the names of our past illustrious leaders in any negative manner is blasphemy – DeValera, Haughhey, Ahearne – all salt of the earth, their corruption was know, but sure it was open and blatant so that was ok! Hopefully we can get over our silliness, forgive FF and let them ruin the country again
Enda Kenny’s legacy you say? Yeah he ruined this country and now at the cost the tax payer , like other cronie politicians he gets retirement money. #FuPeopleOfIreland&ThanksForYourDonations
@Anthony Bartley: TAX?
His legacy? He made Fianna Fail look good again!The man is a back-stabbing traitor to the nation.
A failed politician.
Government has always been a criminal enterprise, making tax slaves out of the electorate. The less we participate in this charade the better for all of us. Governments, if they were legitimate would be tiny well-run local organisations creating no interference in our lives.
A remarkable liar!
Fine Gael only party who represent working families. Labour mouthpiece for Public Sector asking to pay them even more. Sinn Fein and their Marxist agenda – living in the 50′s. Fianna Fail – the Brown Bag party with no moral compass. I will stick with FG thank you.
@Simon Peters: I am a ‘working family’ and they don’t represent me.However they do represent those who can afford Mobile Phone Licences, Farm Extensions, Extra Landlorded houses, etc.FG the ‘party’ of the corrupt elite, they bring the brown envelope to a whole new level.
Enough said:http://www.unitedpeople.ie/enda-kenny-prime-example-of-why-system-change-is-needed/
Irelands jfk
The best good day for Enda kenny + Co is whatever day (some say it will  be definitely on a crunchie Friday) is when the he gets his big fat massive  retirement lump sum in addition to his obscene pension pot of gold!  Then he will ride into the sunset to commence 3 (more) months (additional) holidays!  No doubt about it this is a Great little Country to do Business in (indeed)!Possibly a vanity project library to him in Castlebar costing millions. And a poster over his bed of his date with Fraulein Merkel with a water meter in the background.He is going to join those failures Gilmore, Rabbit, and Hogan in the EEC retirment home for failures and licks to Merkel. I must read the Irish fawning press articles today.Take me home to Mayo with my big pot of gold Suckers!!
Christ!! The first photo at the top of the page looks likes me when i made my first communion. Uncanny!
@RobbieL: A Politician calls… lol.
He should be seen as the leader that provided leadership and lead the country through its worst crisis… but I am sure those that think that Ireland should have done what Greece did, but before they did it, won’t see it that way.. He was a remarkable leader..
Yawn
He made oak trees proud
The best hair in politics
@Bairéid Rísteard: Heir Merkel?
Nicolas Sarkozy a snearing git…
th
@Bennythekid: the q
@Bennythekid: at the third attempt or maybe third time lucky-the question was what was his legacy and the answer is Three pensions and a plum job in Europe.
“Most likely, normal business of the day will be suspended and adjourned until the next day.”Sound lads, half day. And with summer holidays just around the corner…
@Emma: Dont forget you & me the tax payer is paying for the party & hand shake
@bings: And if they didn’t get paid then no one would do the job. There’d be no government just lawlessness. Would you like that. Everybody pays and funds everyone else’s salaries. The thousands of people hired by American companies get paid because other people use their services. Plumbers, builders, accountants, dentists etc etc get paid because “we the tax payer” use their services. It’s not difficult.
@Gary: Yes, but you can choose who your plumber is and before you say you can choose who the leader is, you cannot.Furthermore your plumber does not come to an agreement with you regarding the supply of water and how it is paid for and then decide to move the goalposts and charge you again because if he did you would fire him and get a new plumber.
@Gary: My plumber doesn’t want a golden handshake & be paid.
Thanks Enda. Thanks for nothing.
@Jenny mcCarty: what about 60 odd billion in private debt shoved down our throats.. what about the criminal waiting times in hospitals…what about the shambles that is the upper echelons of the Garde.. what about the 1000′s left homeless..what about the gigantic fk up that is Irish Water.. Jenny we are more than an economy.
@Jenny mcCarty: Is that what it’s called? Lolz.
In a shock move Enda Kenny takes out a steal chair and clatters Leo, stands over him, turns to the rest of the Dail then Oireachtas TV and shouts “Are you all not entertained?”
Leo the minister for everything but his actual brief now gets to be the actual minister for everything. The mind boggles. It’s become a popularity contest.
Taoiseach by default. Even Verukas own party members don’t want him. Give him time to p*ss enough people off – FF will pull the plug & they can interchange yet again. Whoopee !
Probably not the first to say GOOD RIDDANCE
Same circus, new hoops to jump through…
We will learn a lot about the character of Veradker  when we see who he appoints to Ministerial positions.
@saoirse janneau: will not be any suprises in cabinet Simon Harris probably left in health as punishment for supporting coveney
@Noel: That a what I was alluding to. Is he planted in the old school network or is he not? Capability should take precedence over loyalty but will it ? ..
Ah no thanks. There has to be something better on the telly!
Enda is easily the best Taoiseach of the millennium so far. On that we can all agree.
@alphanautica:
@alphanautica: How can we agree with your delusions? Biggest sponger in the state.
Leo will make Noonan look like a pussy cat. A committed, far right, neoliberal globalist. The people never voted for this.
@Dave Doyle: You mean you didn’t vote for it. The people who vote for the loonie left are in a minority, grant it a noisy minority but a minority none the less.
@mickmc: Over their decades in power the rabid right have managed to destroy both the economy, and society in the country, while protecting their cronies.The left is such a small insignificant minority, you won’t see Leo, Mehole, or Howlin wanting to test that lie at the ballot box anytime soon.The real minority is the government in power thanks to backroom deals.
@mickmc: And the people that vote for the treasonous right need to be ashamed of themselves.The country is destroyed with corruption and scandal. Was it the “Loony Left” that destroyed this country?Anyone that still votes for FF/FG needs to take a good hard look at themselves.Change is needed in this country and the sooner the better.
@Dave Doyle: In case it has escaped your mind we had a election at the start of last year. The people spoke, you lot might not have liked the answer they gave but there you go that’s democracy for you. To broaden your support base you might want to start offering something to the near 2 million of us that actually work and create the wealth of the country.
@Horses for courses: oh right so the majority of us are fool. So I take it you aspire to the economic policies of Venezuela or even North Korea. Sounds good kid, sounds good.
@mickmc: Looks like your lot are using the same economic policies as Venezuela and North Korea. Look where that got us.Sorry to have to burst your bubble but in the real world FF/FG between them have made sh*t of the country….
@Horses for courses: Well that depends on how you define sh*t. One of the fastest growing economies in Europe, a job for anyone who  WANTS one. I fail to see the comparison you draw with Venezuela or North Korea. Anyway that’s me out I’ve to go into work and actually earn my living.
@mickmc: The people didn’t speak for FG or Enda Kenny. The only way FG and Enda Kenny got into power was by way of backroom deals.Not by being voted in at the ballot box.
@Dave Doyle: Yes we did Dave. You didn’t, you loser!
@mickmc: Please don’t confuse democracy with putting a 1,2,3 on a piece of paper every 5 years or so, it is not.
Incorrect. He has not been acting-Taoiseach. He remains Taoiseach until Dáil Éireann elects a new Taoiseach. The leadership race was internal FG matter.
The worst thing about this that this failure will now move on to create a biggest mess in the EU.
Good luck Enda. You will probably be hated by the begrudgers for a long time, and they will probably start trying to alter history to blame everything on you.You weren’t perfect, but you were a decent Taoiseach.
@Peter Mc Hugh: The begrudgers like who, people you can’t get home, people who can’t get hospital beds? It’s not the begrudgers you need to watch out for, it’s deluded people like you. Kenny overseen vast amounts of corruption and some of you people are OK with that.
@Peter Mc Hugh: Can’t decide whether it is delusion or ignorance ?Probably FG induced delusion.
He hasn’t gone away, he will be on the ‘back benches’ for a while to come.Counting his pensions.
Enda a yoke of a joke
A failed school teacher blueshirt replaced with a strangely conservative younger blueshirt.
It is tragic that Irish nationalism has no representation in Westminster for the first time since 1830.The Tory/DUP government is loving it.
@Diarmuid: yet SF could change that if they wanted, instead Gerry is to busy mouthing off in the Dail about Brexit….
@Paul: Innovative an idea as keeping your election pledge is to a FGer, I’ll try to explain it for you as simply as possible.Nationalists in the north were given a choice. Vote for the SDLP who will pledge an oath to the queen in order to take their seats in westminister, or vote for Sinn Fein who would not.The SDLP lost all of their seats, whereas SF increased their seat compliment by 75%
@Diarmuid: Gerry Adams is the obstacle for real advancement – he is stuck in a republicanism time warp that is now outdated – let them take up their seats in Westminster and earn their money !
@T Beckett is back: well they’ll get their expenses.. oh sorry; they get those anyway…..!!!!
@Mike Howard:Except Mike, he’s trebled their votes in Ireland since leader, and scares the establishment so much that Ff and Fg have joined to stop him.
@Stephen Duffy:If the Brits don’t want to pay the Shinners’ expenses and fund SF and the retired provos, they can leave the North.Simple as.
@T Beckett is back: Or introduce a ruling for minimum time spent in chambers. Lots of ways to deal with this if somebody wants to. And there is no urgency on any of the big 2.
@Diarmuid: What goes on in the house of commons is nothing more than a pantomime.real work gets do elsewhere, certainly not there!
The same as the Dail talking shop
@Sean Nonutts: you are of course aware that you need to take your seats to engage in any vote and that is where the real work is done. It is bloody rich for SF to bemoan the effect of Brexit on NI when they are one of the very few people who could actually do something about it.
@The Risen: what harm is pledging an aliens to the queen . I taught Ireland moved on.there is a lot of Irish in U.K.soon ireland  will be pledging to Muslim. There is lot in Ireland.
@Diarmuid: Jeremy Corbyn is a good supporter of Irish Nationalism. To a lesser degree the Tories have always supported the Unionists in Ulster.
@Paul Fahey: Jeremy Corbyn will represent Sinn Féin in Westminster. He always has- and the Tories and DUP hated him for it. They called him an “IRA sympathiser”. Also when will FF/FG take their seats in the North? Finally I do think S.F should go back into the Assembly.
Oh look, its that time of the year again when enda remembers Ireland has 32 counties. It almost like Sinn Fein are back in the headl…………..ah.
There is more to Northern Ireland than your Sinn Féin party.Thankfully, some politicians are not running away from the debate in Westminster.
@Diarmuid: Would you pledge an oath to the queen in order to sit in westminister? (By the way, loved how that FF TD refused to answer that question on Clare Byrne yesterday after discussing FFs plans to run candidates in the 6.)
@The Risen: Monkey boy would swear allegiance to the devil himself to keep the bigots in power , he must be creaming himself at this news . But wait till the average Brit gets to see what the DUP are actually about . Or the cash for ash report which is due out soon which will now become a huge story in the UK instead of a provincial one . I have the popcorn ready .
Pledge an oath, cross your fingers behind your back, do something, anything other than the same stale carp that you’ve been doing since I was in nappies.Maybe consider changing your party leader once every fifty years or so, too.
@Neal Ireland Hello.: If people want Sinn Fein to take their seats then they can never complain about politicians breaking election promises again.
@The Risen: If there were no oath of allegence or affirmation sworn on the Bible would Sinn Fein take their seats at Westminster. Probably not because they still refuse to recognise the British parliaments position over legislating for Northern Ireland.The logic of the Sinn Fein position is self defeating. As without legislation there can be no recognition of a local government administration, exactly the position they find themselves in at the moment with the defunct Stormont Assembly. Sinn Fein are a self confessed dictatorship and rule of law unto themselves.
Diarmuid , What do you think your party the DUP will think of their allies in FG  having a gay man as their new leader.
@Just Me: Iris will be on the job. Leo will be saved.
@lavbeer: Much as Iris would be up for it, Leo is spoken for.
@Just Me: So was Iris. Haven’t been keeping up with her recently. Leo might be a little old given her form. Thought she just might take an interest
@Just Me: The Tories have a gay woman for leader in Scotland, thats life so accept it and move on.
@Chris Kirk: Does’nt bother me at all .The DUP, now that’s a different matter.
According to the Good Friday agreement the Irish and British governments, as participants in the peace process, are to remain totally neutral, fair and impartial…How is it then possible, or even legal, for them to now hook-up politically with one side in the conflict? How could they oversee or govern with impartiality?Despite what Charlie F and FG/DUP say…this WILL impact on the still very fragile peace process.
@Pádraig Ó Braonáin: I was wondering that. just say the DUP refuse to establish an executive with SF and it’s goes to direct rule from london. would the DUP then be in breach of the GFA by being in power with the Tories?
@Pádraig Ó Braonáin: I agree Pádraig. It should not be allowed to happen. This is a middle finger to the Good Friday Agreement if it goes ahead.
@Pádraig Ó Braonáin: there is no more trouble it just a game shin fane are playing.
It’s amazing how ff and Fg have just allowed the tories to destroy the GFA.
@T Beckett is back: Have they? How so? Okay take it that they are not honest brokers but destroy it?
@T Beckett is back: So DUP are not allowed into UK government but SF are allowed eneter government here. Surely both would damage GFA. GFA can only be damaged if people choose to terrorise people. Their choice and no one else fault.
@T Beckett is back: FF and FG main aim in all of this is to try to damage SF. They don’t give two F’s about NI only when it can be used against SF their political rival.
@lavbeer: Charlie Flanagan was never interested in helping out the Northern Nationalists. He was interested though in digging out the DUP, but that backfired when they supported Brexit. LOL
I’d say May (as are most uk politicians) is cursing our gov at the moment for letting terrorists into their country, that were initially directly refused entry into the UK. Cursing us for being, with Finland, the country in Europe who currently have the most Muslims in our country who have gotten terrorist training in Syria, according to sky news.
Kinda ironic, two irrelevants discussing relevance, good riddance to both
On the positive side it may never happen, DUP won’t change their strongly held beliefs for anyone.
@Catherine Mc: of course they won’t. They are superior in their minds. Look at Drumcree and the resilience they showed. Out of pure bitterness. That takes generations to remove. And negotiations with a party whose next choice likely leader is that buffoon Boris. Even FG have a better gene pool to them both
@lavbeer:As much as I hate having to agree with you, you are more than likely correct, I am certainly no fan of Enda Kenny but I have my doubts on Leo when it comes to dealing with this fiasco. Hopefully I’m  proven wrong.
@Catherine Mc: There might be a legal challenge taken in the UK against this proposed coalition , using the legal terms of the GFA as it’s reasoning.
@Just Me:I never thought of that, it’s certainly raising more questions than answers.
@lavbeer: As one comedian put it last week – ‘Boris is a twit and a clown who just isn’t funny’. Boris says one thing and then does the complete opposite, a liar at the best of times and totally unreliable.
Has spoken with Thersea May this morning? Before or after Mass?
@Thosj Carroll: Enda Kenny should leave the talking to Leo Varadkar, as it is Theresa May is described by George Osbourne today as ‘a dead woman walking’.Whatever agreement they come to it has its shortcomings.
Hilarious that you were all here last week complaining that the journal was reporting too much on an election that ‘has nothing to do with Ireland’
Stay civil, stay constructive, stay on topic… I’ll get my coat.
The real problem here goes back to the failure of the boundary commission in 1925 to organise the separation of the North of Ireland from the Free State based on the areas with the largest Unionist or Nationalist majorities. The Unionists were not prepared to let go of the Nationalist majority areas in Northern Ireland and the Free State was not prepared to let go of the Unionist majority areas in the Free State. In effect the Boundary Commission never completed its work. We are nearly 100 years now trying to pick up the pieces. A repartition on the basis of the 2017 election clearly illustrates where the border should have been with a Nationalist enclave in West Belfast.
All credit  to  the  DUP…    Must  admit  they do have  a  ‘burning’  ambition! !!!
@Sean Callan: Yea, burning crosses in front of catholic churches and homes!
Two lame ducks discussing their pensions
FACT CHECK PLEASE JOURNAL
@Matty Killucan: Zzzzzzzz
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Couldn’t agree more mate. Total snoozefest of an article.
@Matty Killucan: The Journal did do a Fact Check on your mate Justin Barrett and his National Party, guess what, the chap was full of porkie pies and got a royal flush of false statements, keep spouting his nonsense though, we can always do with a good laugh!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: I don’t know who that is so he mustn’t be a very good friend. Something tells me that young halawa isn’t full of pork pies.
@Matty Killucan: *rolls eyes*
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Liam I would love very much someday to hear your story of conversion to Islam from Christianity?
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Sometimes I wonder if you are actually a devout Muslim as you claim to be
@Dante Marquinhos:  I actually converted from Christianity to agnostic because I refuse to believe in any sort of mystical man in the sky, other than Santa of course!!
@Matty Killucan: Keep wondering Matty!
@Dante Marquinhos: Not much to tell Dante, although I do enjoy the confusion over this Liam Egan chap!
Can we please stop wasting tax payers money to bring home this “holidaymaker”. There is a huge elephant in the room and it’s like they are all afraid the mention it. Haven’t heard a squeak from the brotherhood in Ireland because they may expose themselves.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Interesting that you’re on here commenting during the 3rd prayer of the day. Allah is gonna be piiiiiissssed
@Matty Killucan: Matty, can’t believe you *still think* ‘Tariq’ is anything more than an extremely bad excuse for a  troll!!
@Anon Ymous: Sure I know all about him and his ways. In fact, here’s a link to one of his adverts.ie accounts :-)http://www.adverts.ie/13067513
Muslim botherhoods approach to homosexuality?
@Matty Killucan: Wow, I have a Playstation, cool!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Yup. You have everything that one would expect the archetypal, compulsive troll to have.
@Matty Killucan: Ah now Matty, I’m flattered but I couldn’t possibly fill your boots, I mean, you’re the legend who trolls from the crack of dawn until.3.30am at night clocking up hundreds of comments per day on The Journal, some achievement!! Sadly because some of us have jobs to go to during the day we’ll always be chasing you.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: only those with something to hide fear the truth.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Oh your job driving a dumper around Irish Cement in limerick? I presumed you’d been let go, seeing as you do so much trolling. Still a man united supporter? Amazing what one can glean from the Internet isn’t it.
@Matty Killucan: In your fantasy land Matty I can be anything you want! In fact, I know publicly declare you my concubine.
@Matty Killucan: NOBODY GIVES A SH!T ABOUT A  HOOLIGAN.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: “I know publicly declare you my concubine” Tsk Tsk Tsk. ..silly moo. You shouldn’t type so fast. Slow down, big deep breath, check your spelling and then click post. When you get all flustered, you tend to make yourself look even more stupid than usual.
@Matty Killucan: Where’s my cuppa tea sweety?
Wow 19 red thumbs. Haven’t seen that in a while..
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Whataboutery is no defence Tariq. Face the facts you $cumbag
@Liam Whelan:Don’t give up on Santa Liam!Tariq will tell you Santa was MooslimWait for it…
@SteveW: I wish I hadn’t updated the app, I miss seeing those red thumbs. What are the odds that they’ll sell the feature as an add-on to the app?
Leave him there. Don’t be wasting any more of my tax on him. He will be dealt with in due course by him home nation.
@Liam Whelan: I tend to agree but the delays are getting ridiculous. The only thing our government should be doing is pushing to speed that process up
@Liam Whelan: was reading facist British bulldog diatribe earlier … some of our neighbours have not moved on.  You’re not far behind.
@Dave O Keeffe:  Things move slowly in the Egyptian System !   Strange the father never makes a plea on his behalf.
@Michael O’Leary: they move slowly? Has anyone told them that? The over twenty deferred court appearances would imply that try aren’t aware that they do things slowly
@Mairtin Cathbhar:  I wasn’t reading any sort fascist literature at all, British or otherwise. Unlike your good self!
@Mairtin Cathbhar: Where can I get that periodical, sounds a great read.
@Liam Whelan: I think you’ll find that the muslim brotherhood have the fascist ideology .
@Mairtin Cathbhar: : I think you’ll find that the muslim brotherhood have the fascist ideology .
@Mairtin Cathbhar: British? Explain……
@Liam Whelan: TOTALLY AGREE HE WENT THIER WITH THE INTENTION OF RUNNING AMOK. HE GOT CAUGHT
Did the people of Dublin South West elect Katherine Zappone to obsess over the welfare of this Muslim Brotherhood supporter ? Or ersatz-Muslim Brotherhood supporter –Whatever Halawa is. Focus on domestic matters Minister Zappone before sticking your beak abroad
@Dolly White: Hear Hear-Zappone needs to get real.If Halawas release is her main priority.There must be more pressing concerns in Dublin West-Housing Health Homelessn
@Dolly White: The people of Dublin South West take the shortest journey into town to save money, Zappone takes the longest journey to fiddle money.
Please keep him there.
@Just Some Guy: He’s coming home, you must be sick!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: He is home already
@Boeing Lover: There’s a Coombe Hospital in Cairo too? Who knew?!!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: It’s called the caboome
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad:His Libyan school friend says different. Plus the Muslim Brotherhood are a terrorist organisation, but you know this already. Dhimmi
@Matty Killucan: HAHAHAHAHA CABOOME
@Rowe: It’s been a while Rowe! How was your tour terrorising the people of the West Bank with your IDF buddies? Dhimmi.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: doesn’t matter where in the world he was born. As a son of two married Egyptian citizens he is a Egyptian citizen. And when he is in Egypt- well you know the rest.
@Rowe: it’s also pretty cool that his father arrived over to Ireland for the first time a year after the lad was born in the Coombe …
@Clever Jake: He is Irish but he is also an Egyptian citizen. Doesn’t matter where anyone is from. He is an Egyptian citizen on trial in Egypt.
@Suzie Sunshine: again that is irrelevant as he is an Irish citizen. It’s the Egyptian perspective that is key here
@Suzie Sunshine: Bit odd the way yourself and gregory always arrive to troll at the same time every evening between 7.30 and 9.30 Suzie?
@Suzie Sunshine:The question is, can Tariq explain that??He’ll probably say the aul lad has a langer stretches from Egypt to Ireland, or one of his bizarre stories.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: are you talking about the gay population who are 100 % living in the closet or else they be slaughter or the tiny population of the once strong   arab Christian people  of the westbank which is heading for extinction unlike Israel which they  are growing quickly and  where gay people can there lives without a death sentence hanging over there heads unlike in  the west bank and gazza and all other Islamic countries in the region…. can never understand why far left and so call liberals never see this .
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: what’s odd is you stalking others ..
@lavbeer: that’s true too but the other question that needs to be asked is has he been radicalized while in prison all this time ?
@Suzie Sunshine: in his position I think it’s fair to say he is pi$$ed off. At who thought? But we don’t know that and can’t stop his return based on that.
@Suzie Sunshine:No doubt Suzie
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad:Who Hamas?
@lavbeer: I know he can’t be stopped from coming back here but I would say he’d need to monitored …
From Ibrahim Halawa’s FaceBook page dated 27/05/2017 commenting on the Manchester atrocity:“I just really don’t know what to say. Words have run out of my mouth. My heart aches for all the families who send their loved ones smiling to a concert, only to return to them in pieces and for the families in Egypt who lost their loved ones in Minya.I pray for all the families at this heart time.”This is surprising. How come Ibrahim is allowed internet access in prison? Or is someone else (one of the 3 bail-skipping sisters?) using access on his FaceBook page?
@John Flanagan: Was just going to ask the same question.
@Just Me: Sure you were.
@John Flanagan:YepThe Muslim Brotherhood caresAre those gorgeous sisters entering the Rose of TraleeDaithi would love them. Their public speaking is brilliant. Watch YouTube to see them speak to the terrorists
I will start a go fund me for Ibrahim Halawa’s father to go to Egypt & state a case in person regarding his son’s case to the Egyptian gov.   I just think it’s time that the father went out to visit his son.   Ibrahim must be missing his dad.   Anyone willing to help with the go fund me.!
Why doesn’t varadkar show some leadership and go to Egypt and offer to take his place! Could result in a good outcome for everybody.
@Adrian: You could ask the same question about any of them.Mary Lou for example. Or Gerry. Or Joan.
Thank god I was starting to get Halawa article withdrawal
I don’t think any new approach is going to influence the Egyptian’s now. Particularly as they have joined with Saudi etc against terrorists that include the Muslim Brotherhood. Papa Halawa is one of the heads of that organisation in Europe and as far as Egypt is concerned his son is also a member. The Irish government have got to accept this reality, and allow their courts to adjudicate on this. What won’t help, and what Zappone and her fellow Halawa’ites must be asked ,is why the silence from papa Halawa and the screaming sisters on the recent terror attacks. The excuse has been given, he doesn’t speak English, but the sisters do and their every word or lie is reported by a fawning media. Strange that they weren’t asked for a comment on the attacks.
@Just Me: Sisi did say he can’t interfere in judicial system and rightly so. But the heroes who went on the junket a while back said he would consider release after the trial.So change of tack could be to plead guilty
Zappone is like a bad smell that you just can’t get rid of.
Last weeks Islamic terror victims aren’t even in their grave yet, and we are already back to this.
One of the Journals staff has to be banging one of the hairy sisters
@Clever Jake: What bigots?
@Dave Murray: Lol! What bigots he says! Priceless.
@Clever Jake:Here now, go read the mission statement of the Muslim Brotherhood and statements of its hierarchy concerning LGBT, Jews and Western Judeo Christian society, of which you are apart of, you’ll find plenty of bigotry, you absolute moron.
I can never understand why the journal allow comments on this individual while  legal proceedings are still ongoing. Agree with his detention or not, it’s always been open season on this individual on the journal.
@Jim: ara sure look it who gives a f bout him
@Jim: Egypt is not an EU country therefore the Journal.ie is not legally bound to close this comment section.
@John Flanagan: well what about cases in the US or Australia? These countries are not in the EU and the comments are always closed.
@John Flanagan: Stupid comment Flanagan, what about the Olympic ticket scandal in Brazil, is Brazil in the EU too? LOL!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: No-one cares about you & your stupid comments, you ISIS troll.
@John Flanagan: You got burned Flanagan, take your medicine like a man instead of resorting to chilidsh insults.
@Vincent: You will have to email the legal department of Journal.ie (if it has one!) on this subject.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: No I won’t. Your Twitter page revealed what you really are, you idiot!
@John Flanagan: I think your comments reveal a high level of idiocy, we won’t be going to you for legal advice or geography lessons that’s for sure!
@John Flanagan: If he was ISIS (backed by Sunnis) why would he be sticking up for Halawa who has been associated with the Muslim Brotherhood (backed by Shias)?
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Enlighten yourself, young man. Christ, you should be in the 12″ cell with your beloved poster boy Ibrahim.
@Lamb:Muslim Brotherhood are Sunni
@Lamb: Ask Tariq your question instead, not me.
@Lamb: The Troll Flanagan can’t think outside a very small blinkered narrative (see above response).
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Oi, you get back on your prayer mat! You’re supposed to be a devout Muslim observing the holy month of Ramadan at this moment. Your local imam in Bradford will be extremely disappointed by this latest act of defiance coming from you.
@John Flanagan: Amazing comment!! Bravo sir!
@Lamb: MB are sunnis ,
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Hmm, not amusing enough but do try to keep up your act & practise more until you get to become a professional comedian which you have always longed to be. Bless you, Little Tariq of Bradford.
@John Flanagan: Thanks Flanagan, your encouragement means the world to me, bless your beautiful heart!
@Jim:It hasn’t actually Jim. Irish people were told of the young lad arrested on holliers and we’re angryThen. It’s discovered from videos on YouTube and other information that the family were there to take part in a riot where countless people including cops were killed.We’ve been sold enough pups in Ireland. Halawa and his Cinderellaesque sisters are Terrorists
Approach the back of my balls, Leo.
@Les McQueen:  Don’t tempt him!
@Les McQueen: I’d say he’d like to
Well that was a non news story , time to find out how our gallant Naval boys are getting on  ferrying , ahem I mean rescuing all those migrants/refugees .Watch the video from 5.28 min markhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JZ7gOtHRRT4&index=2&list=PLkqxdJDwUFJUaE2XN7ymZYVERns3cPVwE
@Ken Hayden: Why don’t we see these stories on our tv screens .White helmets are about to be outed , but we probably won’t hear that either .https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OBkn78q_t_Q
@Ken Hayden:They certainly are…https://twitter.com/sahouraxo/status/872502559621120007-The dogs on the street know that the White Helmets are Al Queda, but unfortunately we have too many folks that fall for the Pallywood angle.
Does anyone else find it ironic that it’s 2 gay Irish people trying to bring someone with a MB ideology , back into the country .
Halawa sisters bringing the Irish state to court for not allowing their Eygptian husbands who live in Turkey visas to live in Ireland one who is pregnant,i thought the Halawas claim they are Irish,more muslim brotherhood on the way to Ireland knowing our liberal judges,I suggest The sisters couldnt find an irish cousin to marry…
@Ben Moylan: The question is how did these 3 screeching lying sisters became Irish citizens in the first place? I hope their husbands are the genuine articles, not the Rachid Redouane types but I fear I could be wrong on this case as we all know that these 3 bail-skipping sisters are MB supporters like their dear baby bro Ibrahim. I hope the court sees sense after the Rachid Redouane business and refuse their applications to let their hubbies reside in our dear Emerald Isle.
Sinister, Leo organises a meeting of COBRA and then suggests a new approach to halawa’s freedom, sounds like an Israeli type rescue attempt.
@Dave Hogan:Please no!No rescue attempts
Nothing to do with his skin colour more to do with him and his nazi pals the Moslem brotherhood – surprised a gay man would be in a hurry to try and help one of them -
@Thomas Harrington: Leo’s not the only gay in town, ye know! Colm O’Gorman of Amnesty International probably has pinned a giant poster of Ibrahim on his bedroom wall as I type this.Wow, this could possibly lead into handbags at dawn between Leo & Colm over Ibrahim the MB terrorist?
@John Flanagan: Well there’s a surprise, The Troll Flanagan is also a homophobe!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Wait a minute, your Quran condemns homosexuality, doesn’t it? Then it makes you a hypocrite as well.Or are you really using your username as a disguise because you’re Liam of Raheen Co Limerick for real? If so, how even more pathetic of you…
He travelled to Egypt on an Egyptian passport (not an Irish one), got involved with the Muslim Brotherhood, with his fathers permission. Let him rot there. It’s an Egyptian problem not an Irish one.
PLEASE keep this Muslim brotherhood soldier over there!Halawas own Father had ties to one of the London bombers for fecks sake. His “beautiful” sisters are currently suing the Irish state (paid for by us the taxpayer)  because the State won’t let their off the shelf husbands in. These people give nothing to Irish Society. Just take,  take, takeIronic Varadker and Zappone, both LGBT work to bring the son of the Imam who believes all LGBT should be killed. Turkeys and Christmas, the new Ireland
Lazy Journalism.
@Each Way Thief: it was up all night drinking Dutch Gold and watching Babestation.
I can see the future.  Halawa is going to behead Micheal D on O Connells bridge.
How is this even in his first 100 things to do list?
I would be grateful if the Journal could do an opinion poll for us, How many dead children are worth the vibrancy that Islamic immigration brings? And seeing as multiculturalism is all about the food, how many underage girls raped are worth having a kebab shop?Answers on the back of a postcard please!
Fair enough, in the meantime will he be considering a different approach to how his party and their coalition partners address the ongoing crises in the country or will they be continuing to operate strictly in falsehoods, corruption and lack of accountability? I doubt the Halawa family have anymore faith in Leo the Liar than anyone else in Ireland.
Ok to try and be fair. He should have had his day in court by now. Considering as all he did was attend and talk at a protest. Time served if found guilty and deported. Maybe keep on watch list when he gets back here.
@Thomas Maher: Time spent will be deductable if found guilty .So if he gets 10-15 years .,he will only have to serve, 7-12 years. Then they can keep him.
@Thomas Maher: why deport him? He has dual Irish/Egyptian citizenship… they don’t have to deport him, just kick him out the prison gates.
Headline should read“Two LGBT Turkeys demand a Muslim Brotherhood Christmas”
Colm O Gorman meeting on the cards for Leo the Lion soon
@Dolly White: sure all she knows is abroad she’s a yank
well every human being deserves a fair trial and those prisoners held in Cuba. nobody ever  mention that not even the journal
HERE WE GO!!!!!!!!
@Kev Barnes: The article was posted an hour and a half ago, better luck next time.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: sorry pal some of us actually have lives
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: next time you’re in blanchardstown gimme a shout pal I’ll buy you a coffee……… Ahem!!!
Fact check please
Nobody wants him back in this country, his family know that
Just wouldnt be a proper ibrahim post without tariq trolling it in support of islam. At least its a change from his usual speel against Catholicism. Your in Ireland now tariq. We support equal rights for women freedom of speech and dont view homosexuality as a crime. Proud to have our first openly gay leader. We can draw cartoons of whoever we like. What we cant do is marry and bed a 6 year old child bride like your prophet did. Muslim brotherhood/sharia law supporters belong in jail its just a pity the rest of his sharia law supporting friends and family avoided jail
Straight to comments. Popcorn at the ready. Now,where did I put the Kleenex……
FU)k off with this story already thought that fu(ker was on hunger strike
@Tom Harpur: pity he isn’t
I live in Egypt, We didn’t  want Halawa,he came  his videos urging the Rabea sit in for Jihad are all over the place, I am sorry the justice is very slow,but violent radicals end in places like Guantanamo jail without trial, he is a ticking time bomb,the kid is a hard core MB,his dad a coward.
@Hany Ragy: If you have any links , that would be great .
Leo should be focusing on keeping terrorists out, rather than bringing one back.
It is such a relief to live in a country where the absolute majority cherish proper judicial process and look forward to seeing Ibrahim Halawa returned home to both the city and country of his birth. I’m no fan of Fine Gael but this is a positive move by Varadkar in line with the wishes of the Irish people. Sadly there is a small number of people (I would be reluctant to even call them a minority they are so insignificant) who prefer internment without evidence or trial, these misguided fools deserve our pity, and their disappointment upon Ibrahim’s release will be a reminder of the nefarious groupings which reside among us. Chin up Ibrahim, it won’t be long now!
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: Allahu akbar
@Matty Killucan: Yawn.
@Tariq Ibn Ziyad: I thought you lived in Bradford. I agree with you about living in a country that cherish judicial process. So why do you condemn Egypt a sovereign state that adheres to their judicial system. Just because their skin color is not the same as ours doesn’t make their courts inferior. Or are you racist on this matter by any chance.
@Lizzy Hennessy: Hello Lizzy, welcome to our country, do you speak English? If not, no problem!
@Clever Jake: You can be sure Egypt would be in a worse state if the MB were still there , life is hard enough for the Copts as it is .And Morsi refused to sign a U,N womens rights declaration . They don’t believe in democracy .https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/mar/15/muslim-brotherhood-backlash-un-womens-rights
@Clever Jake: I don’t condone it , but it might be the best of two evils .The death cult of Islam has no place here in Irish society , it has a vile and dehumanising ideology .If in your mind that is a racist thing to say , it’s you who are the bigot .It’s the ideology of fundamental islam which is the problem , not the skin colour of people coming here .Pappa Halawa has been here 20 years and hasn’t even bothered to learn English , what does that tell you about what he thinks of us ?
So they have agreed to mothing either way..usual shi@e
Supporting terrorists now are you …..
Straight to comments, popcorn at the ready,now where did I put those Kleenex……
Bonus for Christmas and now this worst mistake ever letting him in to Irish politics
Try, picking up the phone and demanding his release, this governments handling of this is quite disgraceful, if it was a mountmellick resident, Ballina native or even a Dub, now Leo’s in, this would have been sorted months, years at this stage ago. Shameful
@Joey Dempsey: Really? What makes you think that?
@Joey Dempsey: Actually there are several Irish residents not Muslim in jail in foreign countries…One has been in jail in Dubai for several years and one in Philippines..Joe Duffy had programme segment on then….No action from Irish government on them….
@Joey Dempsey: Eanna Ó Cochláin, why don’t you look him up.
F*CK HALAWA!!!!!
We have a government and all the Muppets fighting for the Muslim brotherhood cause and yet our government can’t fix the homeless crisis along with our healthcare system well done varadkar and co you really know how to f**k it upHalawa should be left there and deport those sisters of his back to Egypt
D
..
.
Criminals the lot of them.But can you blame them when the electorate keep voting them in.
FF better increase social welfare by 10-20 euro a week for the vulnerable especially the disabled and carers or they will end up like the Labour liers. They better build social housing now and one off council houses in the countryside like they did up to the crash for those it would suit. Labour gave nothing in budget 2015 &16 when government had money to spend and throw the most vulnerable under the bus even though an election was coming up. FF will be like Labour are now if they don’t deliver for the poorest in this “new politics”
@abcyz: FF aren’t in Govt so it will be FG who will shape the budget. Social Welfare system needs urgent reform, with a move to a tapered system based on contributions for all able bodied. With special assistance given to the 30k+ claiming dole who have never worked
@Stephen Kearon: “FF aren’t in Govt so it will be FG who will shape the budget”LOL! FF still blaming everyone else, even when they’re propping up the Tories in power.
@Stephen Kearon: FF aren’t in government???? What planet do you live on? It might not be called a coalition government but that’s exactly what we currently have. Tories propping up Tories.
@Stephen Kearon: FF are as much in government as FG is. FF like mouthing off on issues, having hissy fits for public consumption. But when push comes to shove, the establishment rules. That’s what it’s all about. The establishment comes first.
@Elizabeth Gregory: the confidence and supply agreement is just that, not coalition
@Stephen Kearon: Who do you reckon believes you at this stage, stephen?
@abcyz: They won’t have to increase it because Leo’s gonna reduce it.
@Stephen Kearon: Private individuals are vastly more efficient than government at distributing wealth. Government and the tax system are a scam.
And the Irish people have no reason to trust anyone of them
@Thaddus T Sawballs: The deal done was, Leo gets Taoiseach job and qualifies for pension and a car for life, Then after the summer break Mehole becomes outraged and calls for an election for his car and pension for life.Carry on Minions.
@Thaddus T Sawballs: Micheal, after the INCORRECT COMMENTS from Frances Fitzgerald today about the source of the Islamic attacks SHE HAS TO GO. ISIS =wahabbi Sunni muslims. Shia Muslims ZERO attacks.
@David Huston: all trueAnd the haggert bobby has to sweat it out tillSeptember then she can sail off with humongous  pension
Well done Mick.Fine Fail instrumental in electing two Fine Gael taoisigh in a row.Who’d have ever thunk that eh? Civil War politics must be over.
@Carl Ingalls: Reunited and it feels so good, ~~ Reunited cause we’ve understood.
Of course Mehole …Maintain the status quo , eh ?
@Willy Malone: who would you have in?
Martin is a disgrace. It took labour to bring attention to the whistle blower enquiry, further investigation into the Anglo case and no tax for aib bank for the next 30 years. Martin is happy to go along with the corruption and the status quo. If he was doing his job properly, he’d have called an election long ago and bring this shambolic fg gov down. FF and FG are colluding to ensure at least one of them is in gov.
And this is not new politics. This is just a cozy arrangement between the two biggest and most corrupt political parties in the country. If support for both of them remains weak, they don’t want an election as it invites other perties to move in and gain some support and power.
Eh any chance the voting population might be afforded the chance to say who they want as Taoiseach ??
Leo you don’t bring up the 50k in my wife’s account again, which I must emphasis was only resting there, and I won’t call for an election.
“He said Fianna Fáil continues to be a party that promotes “fairness and decency”Don’t you have to be doing something to be able to continue it?
The face on cowen, it looks like he’s trying stop himself from laughing
An Irish citizen locked up in Egypt without trial  for 4 years???? First i heard of it and I’m on the journal daily. Perhaps the journal could write a bias piece on it
@Daniel O’Connor: As someone who travels to some doggy spots I also find this a bit worrying, I only hope it’s because he is brown in colour and not a pale freckled red head like my self. If I was in he’s situation I would expect the FCA to invade Egypt and come to my rescue at a minimum.
Opposite cheeks of the same sleveen backside, destroying our parliamentary process by conspiring to deny the Irish people a true opposition in the Dail.Roll on the next election….
Micheal. .give Leo the  “free ride”…by propping up a FG government yet again..  and you will be annihilated into the history books..as insignificant…politics hurts!  not what you’re forebears would have done ..and the irish public will not thank you!Yours   to lose  and yours to gain..think long and hard!
FF muppets keeping this unelected character as the country’s leader instead of having an election to clear the air from the Kenny disasters. Devious, lying, self-serving crooks.
@Gus Sheridan: So basically your saying we should have every year. That would really get things done.
Let’s judge Leo based on how the gauntlet falls upon him as Taoiseach…and how he reacts to that.Time alone will be his judge….not the so very many lickarse and so very nauseating and typical Irish political sound bites and PR emulation…the  “give us a job Leo”…brigade…that we have heard to date!
Well coalition partners ought to trust each other.
The FGF Party.
The Endapendents are all looking for something for their own constituencies, parish pump politics again. sod the country as long as their constituencies are looked after, god im sick of this kip of a country.
FF BETTER get 10-20 increase in social welfare in budgets as most vulnerable disabled and carers got nothing from the Labour liers in 2015& 16 when government had money to spend. They looked after the unionised civil service and only increased min wage by absolute buttons. FF better get social housing built now and one off council houses in the countryside for those that it would suit like before the crash. FF will end up like the Labour liers if they don’t deliver foe thw needy in this “new politics”
@abcyz: what a load of shit. How about some tax cuts for hard pressed workers funding all this ridiculous social welfare, and getting nothing in return??
‘Not another red cent.’Duh!
The establishment conspiring to impose a Taoiseach on us from FG, the party that is destroying society. Fully supported by the party that destroyed the economy, FF.FG have no mandate. Varadkar, has even less of a mandate from the members of FG.Such is democracy in the corrupt cesspool of Ireland that the establishment parties of FF/FG/Lab will do anything to keep the gravy train of corruption going.
@Dave Doyle: If only we had an alternative to these clowns
@Gerry Murphy: If only we had real meaningful democracy.
Good to see Zappones priorities are aligned with everyone else, eh
Well, if a member of the previous  Fianna Fáil cabinet thinks he’s trustworthy, that’s good enough for me.
We need massive political reform this is not how a country should be run deals in back rooms and political favours for support. We need an election.
Dark Vader is going to Force us all to pay for everything.
“ensure kenny gets a satisfactory send off”. What a shower of absolute gobs@#$es!
Bring back Enda…at least he wasn’t a crook, like Calelly, Haughey, Burke, Flynn, Ahern, O’Keeffe and the rest…
@Fank Pulman: you are having a laugh? Right?
@Fank Pulman: you can lump that useless goat in with the first lot you mentioned. Edna isn’t staying on for the good of the country.
@Mary Murphy: There is not many left to vote for
God help us how did it ever come to this .We all want a strong leader instead we get Leo Veradcar . Will life be worth living under Leo. We all know the answer to that. We are stuck with this blue shirt right wing mad man. I suppose he will promise the moon and the stars. But we all know we are just getting a shit storm.
Actions​ speak louder.government is doing nothing but increasing the cost of living and their salaries,and FF are sitting back thinking they will benefit.they won’t,avoid voting FF fg labour in any election.
Actions​ speak louder.government is doing nothing but increasing the cost of living and their salaries,and FF are sitting back thinking they will benefit.they won’t,avoid voting FF fg labour in any election.b
@@mdmak33: and the vote for who? No one.
Martin you coward.Call an election.
Politics, the art of saying the opposite to what you actually meant.
Since fianna fail PRO steven mentioned people getting things for nothing, Everyone should Google steven kearon “special deal” with fianna Fail minister Dick Roche.
As far as i know, this is how “democracy” works: The banking system gives the political parties a “loan” to win the elections. This “loan” isn’t called in unless they do something the banks don’t like…. Simple… I heard this from a former Israeli politician.
I suggest everyone Google fianna Fail PRO steven kearons “special deal” he had going with fianna Fail minister Dick Roche.Since he has a horn for people who supposedly get money for nothing!
Pity we can’t say the same about you lot……
100 years of FF, FG, Labour and surely there has to be another alternative?such a crooked system, no accountability by any political party
H
Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah….. Blah blah blah…. blah blah blah… Blah.
Time to pull the plug and be eather in government or sit on the fence.
Simon Harris 12 months after the St John of God topups broke we have The damming HSE Audit millions involved at the taxpayer funded Charity . Not a comment from the minister although he set up investigation into Sumbeam House . Come on Simon comment.
@PVD: I think that he’s waiting to get his Confirmation out of the way before he makes a comment. I’d say he’ll get loads of dosh on the day. He’s a grand lad.
The IA and FFbetter raise social welfare and keep the vulnerable waiting 5 months for increase. Both these better drI’ve hard bargain or they will go same way as the Labour liers
@abcyz: not keep vulnerable waiting
@PVD: Ind Alliance had a very constructive and satisfactory meeting with Leo. Of course they did, they were told their pay and pensions are safe.
“he has made it clear to Varadkar that the careers of his supporters should not suffer.”Eh, since when does the loser in a leadership contest get to dictate to the party leader re cabinet positions. Give up the sanctimonious act Simon.
@Fred Jensen: SC shouldn’t venture an opinion?
@Fred Jensen: He won the majority of party members and a number of TDs may find themselves with awkward selection conventions if he doesn’t get listened to.
@Fred Jensen: When by some strange mechanism the loser gets almost 3 times the number is votes then the “winner”
@Jane Waters: I assume the membership voted in that electoral college though. Assume
@Chris Mansfield: the TDs are way more representative of the country than the Fine Geal members are.
That’s all they care about, career. F U my career is more important. These effin right wing dirtbags couldn’t give a toss about Joe public
Leave him as Minister for Health. That should be punishment enough.
@Phil O’ Meara: Punishment to whom? The Public?
@Phil O’ Meara: hi Phil. Bad idea. Patients are dying as Harris won’t keep his promises. He won’t even speak to the people he made the promise too.  We lost another person to sarcoma at the weekend. See Facebook.com/sarcomaireland
@Cathal McNamara: Hi Cathal. Apologies if my post seemed trite. I think that healthcare in Ireland needs root and branch reform. I don’t believe that under current structures the Minister for Health has the ability to affect much change, even if they want to. The last Minister who stayed in Health for a long period- voluntarily- was Mary Harney. Many political creatures, before and after, have done their stint in health and then vamoosed before their political reputations were ruined. Take the newest Fine Gael leader as an example.
@Phil O’ Meara: thanks Phil. Fully understand. Our issue is a promise was made and broken. It’s a very discouraging thing when you can’t trust a government minister. Very sad for families directly affected.
I think simon should grow up and expect politicians to get jobs on performance and competency, not who they support. What a privileged fantasy land he lives in!Maybe this statement just shows how they think and operate, ie: its nothing to do with ability, its about who manages to get elected and then subsequently who’s inside and outside their little club.
Why wouldn’t Leo be magnanimous in victory? he doesn’t have a huge spread of talent to choose from…Noonan is now gone as is the glorious leader.
@winston smith: Harrisbhas achieved more in Health than Leo. Even Reilly did. Leo brought in penalties for not buying health insurance as his mate was buying a hospital at a knock down brief whilst borrowing from the FG bank.
@winston smith: probaly leave Harris in Health as punishment for backing coveney
65% of FG supporters wanted Coveney and they got Varadkar. Sounds about right for FG.
Careers? are these guys insane? Harris should be fired with his record in health alone.
Harris is screwing up his career without any help from anyone…and for that as always in this little cesspit of a country will be rewarded,and that is a fact.There was a time when I used to be proud to be Irish,but the last twenty years of government has made be very bitter and I am not likely to change anytime soon.It is a cesspit…and it is not going to get better.
It would be nice if ministers were appointed because they could do the job effectively. …..We can but dream!
I am as clever a man as you will ever meet…dyslexia doesn’t affect self-esteem…
An chance being an terrible politician might damage his political career?
No such worries from me , health service is in tatters ;
When you pick the wrong horse your career will suffer just ask John Paul Phelan. Anyway he doesn’t need Leo to ruin his political career he’s well able to do that himself.
@sportsmad: did Leo no harm last time out when he didn’t support Enda
More nonsense and a smoke screen for the Gullible Gallery assisted by the fawning Irish Media.Varadker showing faux concern for continuing allegiance for Independent group remaining in Government under his leadership.These politicans ( in Government and opposition) have only one real principled policy and that is to stay in office as long as possible knowing full well the pot of gold i.e Big Pensions and hugh lump sums are almost within immediate grasp. I suppose you could term it the Sinn Fein / Me Fein factor which is theone indistinguishable common  penchant inherent in all the current crop of politicians on all sides (be they male or female).  At least in these  important financial matters you have equality of mindset between all the sexes! No Equality Bill needed only Dollar bills.
It would be absolutely pointless reshuffling health minister roll currently- just when someone starts getting momentum in a job the government order reshuffles…
With the Dáil to break this week! What is that all about?  You can tell the place is full of ex teachers not wanting to give up their summer holidays. How about hang around to the end of the month and do some work.
Constructive meeting means their seats are safe as far as these parasites are concerned.
All for the Parish
So they kept their jobs then
Did you ever see Turkeys voting for Christmas
Simon should go get a job tossing burgers or something he is actually good at.
Shane Ross got a hand shandg
Bit late for that
LV : are ye in for a few ministerial cars?IA:  fckn sure we are.Meeting concluded
One a#sehole shouting out another one….
Bono is the second Messiah.He cosies up to world leaders and third rate political leaders.
One a tax dodger and the other aids and abets tax dodging —-aib for instance
Jesus…felt a bit sick there
Chieftain of our country?! Or in English… the prime minister. Total muppet.
@john Appleseed: Well the literal translation of Taoiseach is ‘Chief leader’ as far as I am aware.
Cringeworthy…
Two ends of the same……..,insert expletive here.
@Teddy: ballbag
Bono has no credibility with Irish people.
Great to see Ireland being promoted abroad. All helps us get a better profile encouraging foreign investment in Ireland.
Any chance it was sarcasm?
@Lily Martin: Hope so Lily!
Two gobsh&tes
I know it’s only a side matter in the article but I found Kenny’s statement about “avoiding the scientific accuracy of the facts” in regard to climate change a little ironic given that many climate change advocates aren’t too keen on highlighting the scientific fact that the earth’s climate continually cooled from 2000-2014 which they did incidentally by replacing the term “global warming” with “climate change” the latter being an inconvenience for government green tax pushers. Lol.
You dont live here bono so stfu
Pay Yer income tax here a fvck up Bono, good man
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: he actually does.
@Mark Byrne: is that to the Netherlands?
Typical  Bono..   Totaly intoxacated by  the  exuberance of  his rearend verbosity …
One waster mouthing praise for a another one
Graceful????More like greasy
Two fiddlers at the same gig.
two of a Kind…. man of the people Enda…https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1JD25qe9yJE
Kenny and the wife having a f–king ball on TAX payers money, he is payed to much and he bailed every last  big shot out bar the hard pressed Irish people, hope this is the last we hear of him.
@Jimmy Mac: paid even!What a mouthful of garbage!
He’s no chieftain of mine..neither is that little runt either..
A shout out from one prize pr¡ck to another!!!
Bono you are a useless little worm. If you want to dispute I will either kick 16 types of shit out of you or debate your crimes against the people of Ireland.
@Brendan Keegan: ur a plantpot
@Keith: That you bono?
Some of us actually pay tax ..We funded Enda’s lap of honour
Awful eejet
U2 were once so cool. Now they’re so sad.
Too , to and twoPs Pox bottle best expression ever
I guess his curic measurements increased recently
@iMoan Brutal: Dec 11 2011, Bono being interviewed by Huckabee on FoxNewsHuckabee: “You done a remarkable job, I want to say thanks on behalf of all human beings around the world for… Advocacy that has led to the saving of literally millions of lives and I wish you the very best and aaa, one other thing. You have a knack for getting people of wide political variances together, we might need you to run forPresidency.”Bono: “I’m going to say, that would be a very scary moment for the world, Mmmm.You on the other hand, I think would bring thee, the Reagan like statesmanship that’sSo missing.”
Of course Bono praises the politician whose salary his tax dollars don’t pay.
F off Bono what a prat …Graceful leader my arse
Firstly I want to say I greatly admire U2 , their music and phenomenal success. However when Bono praises the leader of a political party that betrayed it’s people for personal enrichment, I feel nauseated. Ordinary Irish citizens have been abused bullied and oppressed by these politicians, financial institutions etc. Has Bono ever expressed compassion for the families destroyed by these people, has he taken time notice the amount of suicide and mental health issues imposed on defencless Irish citizens ? I doubt it, we live in an Ireland and EU which is degraded and corrupt, and primarily functions to serve the haves and not the most vulnerable.
i love u2s music but bono should keep his nose out of politics !!!
There are events on every weekend at the RDS – I don’t see why this BS is given so much air time. The chap is a Donal trump when it comes to getting free media attention
@the phantom: clearly some spin in there. i would’ve thought the headline should be that the Dublin conference community attracted a major financial sector conference. rather than Paddy claiming to be some charitable messiah rattling on about bringing it to their hometown. who does he think he is? bono or something even more irritable.
@the phantom: really?1.5m in access to students who would otherwise have to pay for the same conference in another city.Plus more exposure to the city as a financial hub.You really have a problem with this?What’s you’re alternative?
@the phantom: Great news for Irish people especially young, bad news for Anti Prosperity types.
This Paddy Cosgrove guy is starting to annoy me
@Jayo Breathneach: annoys me too, with all its problems web summit was a success because of its location, and he’s picked his moment now to save face and make money as soon as possible.
€1.5 million in tickets – so maybe 10 tickets?
@Caoimhe: And it will still probably be oversold by 50%
Ahhhh, he should be beatified like AIB for giving that couple on their new ad a mortgage!Did it not work out in Portugal?Was their ‘Wifi’ not as marvellous as ours?Did it turn out profit there was a tenth of what it was here?Do tell Paddy, do tell!! We wait with baited breath……
@Karl Monaghan: It’s not the Web Summit coming  it’s Moneyconf which started  in Belfast before going to Madrid
Wasn’t aware JP Morgan were moving 1000 bankers from London to Dublin. Thought they agreed office space for up to 1000 to include the 500 staff already here! Paddy needs to check his facts.
@Charles Alexander: a thousand bankers sounds so much more dramatic. Perhaps we can think of a word to describe a thousand bankers.A maelstrom of bankers? A megaswarm of bean counters? A moshpit of moola movers?
@Zx5vZulB: A thousand gangsters
@Zx5vZulB: it’s a Nonsense of bankers
@Charles Alexander:and the vast majority of those jobs are low value with churn at the lower levels in the industry at over 30% according to citibank
@Zx5vZulB: the collective term for bankers is a “wunch”
@Charles Alexander: they are renting one of them them 7 new buildings currently in construction in capitol dock at the port
Great news. Hopefully the hotel’s don’t up the prices and send it to another country again….
@Derek Moean: yeah Paddy was responsible for that, his company booked the hotels and resold them to attendess at marked up prices
@Ian McNally: Didn’t know that Ian..
@Derek Moean: bizarre statement about Enda
@James Gorman: That seems to be to get free publicity. Otherwise no one would care.
@Derek Moean: supply and demand.
@brian magee: Artificial or not, it is still called “supply and demand.”
@James Gorman: all statements about him are bizarre
Nothing  anywhere else hence return with tail between said legs
Run em to f..kIreland’ wasn’t good enough for themNow they come crawling back
@Thaddus T Sawballs: We are like this stupid ladies beaten and abused by their fellas but always ready to forgive and welcome them back if they ask..
He made a haimes of running this event in Portugal, odds are it will go wrong in Madrid too, so back to Ireland he comes, where people will accept his b.s. about how none of the organisational problems are his fault.
Fantastic, Gamercon for grown-ups, where do my visa card and I sign up?
Paddy and his minions need to flockoff… Back to Lisbon with ye! Nothing to see here
Well timed?
Theresa May calling it a “terrible incident”. Merkel condemning “all forms of terrorism”. It seems like the most important thing at a time like this is not to hurt Muslims feelings by using the term Islamic terrorism.
@Seamus Wall: many areas in Ireland are unsafe for women, many women in Ireland live in unsafe situations, many are subject to regular violence, some are killed – it has nothing, whatsoever, to do with Muslim men.
@Peter: but if we continue to allow hoardes of Muslim men in it will become a problem
@Dj: Whatever you may think of Muslims, this hate crime has nothing to do with religion or the fact that most Muslims living in Britain live their lives peacefully and intergrate into normal life among other Britons. A few headbangers out of control cannot be blamed on religion in any shape or form.
@Dj: Whatever you may think of Muslims, this hate crime has nothing to do with religion or the fact that most Muslims living in Britain live their lives peacefully and intergrate into normal life among other Britons. A few headbangers out of control cannot be blamed on religion in any shape or form. Well done to the London police for handling the situation in a speedy fashion.
@Peter: Idiotic statement.
@Peter: Possibly the most ridiculous statement ever posted on the Journal and that’s some feat.
@Chris Kirk: head in sand syndrome.
@Dj: I don’t remember IRA or UVF members being described as Irish or Northern Irish terrorists. As they did not represent all Irish people, no more than a few murderous psychopaths with swords do all muslims.
@Karl Waters: I gave an example that I live and see with my own 2 eyes every day above as to how this religious way of life is incompatible with progressive European ideas. It for sure is not the people its the book.
@mmmcl186: This is what happens when Country’s open their borders to all and welcome them there’s  always some who flourish and move into terrorism and this is what we are seeing now This Country is also at risk because of the checks not been tough enough at the start.
@Karl Waters: Maybe you’re too young but I well remember it
@Seamus Wall: are you saying the whole of Paris is a no-go area @ night?
@Karl Waters: Very true, however they were often refered to as Catholic or Protestant which is unfair on the rest of society trying to make Ireland a better and more peaceful place for everyone.
@Squarepeg01: Is that what you call it…..
@Chris Kirk: Vast numbers of Muslims don’t integrate. In fact there’s been more segregation in recent years. Large parts of English cities now look like Islamabad. The shop fronts are Islamabad. The dress code is Islamabad. Men are hanging around and women are pretty much invisible.Most of these people will never harm anyone, but it’s willfully stupid not to see that there’s a problem here.
@Ben McArthur: The problem is with political parties in Britain like Ukip and the Tories stirring up racial tensions in places where migration hasbeen welcome overthe decades. British people have always been regarded as tolerant of people from other countries until the brexit referendum made outsiders feel less welcome. Britain has always supported a mixed race society and has integrated with Muslim & Hindu commonwealth members including India and Pakistan. Theresa May’s government has turned Britain int
@Chris Kirk: I’m sorry but that’s nonsense. These changes predated the May government. Even if it didn’t, what exactly has persuaded entire areas to turn themselves into exclaves of Pakistan and Bangladesh? You see nowhere that looks like an exclave of Mumbai.
@Peter: i think the idea is to reduce violence whatever way possible Peter. Importing groups of people who cause mayhem isn’t rational, even when there are some exceptions amongst them.
The usual anti-Muslim bullshit here. The majority of Muslims people are decent honest hard working people. I know I live with them. Everybody is so concerned when this happens in London or Paris or Manchester. Names and pictures in the lousy papers who laud over it for weeks to sell their rags. When it happens in Kabul or Baghdad as it did last  week it  doesn’t rate. The simple truth is Britain and their pals created this hate. They had no trouble bombing Libya and Iraq back to the stone age and then running away from the mess. These idiots gave these nutters this cause so now they have nowhere to run. People in Ireland are safe because they is no history of bring in any of these stupid wars.
@ Peter. Good man Peter you absolute idiot. Thank god we didn’t have people like you fighting for England, America and Russia in the 1940s you coward. We would all be living the dream of the 1000 year Reich now if we did. Wake up man.
@Brendan Keegan: Fair comment but let’s stop Ireland from putting our future generations at risk
@Chris Kirk: you do know why these ‘headbangers’ are committing these acts yes?
@Chris Kirk: youbsay brexit as if it was imposed by the ruling government. The people voted for it. The same people you think integrate well.
@Peter: Peter there are too many people that do what you have just done.We are talking about a radical ideology that has no purpose in the western world other than to rape murder and kill, now we all know that every county has had there own problems well before we start dealing with the threat of Muslim terrorists.But one thing we cannot do and sadly people like you continue to do is divert opinion  from the MAIN cause of the problem by saying “well we have had these problems before or not all Muslims are to blame” no one is blaming all muslims but it shocks me that people can’t see what is right in front of there faces.Radical Islam is a huge problem that needs to be tackled head on, fight fire with fire.God damm leftist apologists need to cop on take there heads out of the sand.
@Karl Waters: actually Karl I do
In London First responders shot suspects dead within eight minutes of the emergency call. Are we well prepared Leo? If not, why not?
@Fionnuala Rogers: man isn’t even in office yet.
@Roy Dowling: THE JOURNAL.IE CENSOR PEOPLE WHO GO AGAINST THE LIBERAL MULTICULTURAL  NIGHTMARE. I’M OUTTA HERE.
@Danny foley:  My messages also, this is snowflake central. Goodbye journal.ie.
@Fionnuala Rogers: We could give u a  gun, seems u want to shoot someone, grow up,,
@Fionnuala Rogers: We live in a country where gangland criminals are better resourced than our national police force, so the answer to your question is no.
@Danny foley: Don’t go – how will it survive without your insightful input>?
@Danny foley:Goodbye, you won’t be missed.
@Fionnuala Rogers: Do you think that the Garda are under prepared, where is your evidence. Garda often deal with gun and knife crimes.
@John Wilson: only decent response to Fionnula’s comment… I thought I was the only one that understood what she meant.. thanks John
@Fionnuala Rogers: The problem here is in 8 minutes a lot of killings and wounding’s can take place. The attackers did’nt care. they were just intent on killing as many as possible .They knew they would be shot, that did’nt bother them. they welcomed it. Martyrdom was the purpose , killing the infidels, no matter where you find them will in their warped mind get them their numerous virgins for eternity. With mindsets like that, It’s near impossible to stop them.
@Fionnuala Rogers: why is Leo being asked? He’s not Taoiseach and if after this week he is he’s not 70+% of the Irish people’s.
@Just Me: which is why we need to stop importing them.
Ireland are dream walking if its people keep their head in the sand and pretend that it will never happen here. Irish Gov couldn’t run Tayto Park for a day and God forbid there was an attack here. The wonderful Nurses in our hospitals can’t even cope with a flu epidemic.
@Rory Toner: so true unfortunately. The country is mismanaged day to day I dread to think WHEN it happens in Dublin
@Seamus Wall: Totally Seamus. Enough is enough of this effing Siht. Bunch of hunts hanging around the Point Depot at concerts not selling a thing but watching everything. And F the person that wants to disagree with me when children are going into a concert
@Seamus Wall: There hasn’t been an attack by Islamist terrorists in Ireland – or the majority of other countries.
@Seamus Wall: Seamus, it’s lovely that you’ve found out how to use the internet and all, but do you think you could stop sharing that link please? I’ve seen it a dozen times in these comments, your point is pretty clear, give it a wee rest now.
Don’t be so thick Peter you have to know that Islam is incompatible with Western life
@Mike Cantwell: well said Mike. Go back to bed Peter you useless dimwit troll.
@Seamus Wall: just over 1% of the population of Ireland is Muslim. 64,000 approx. We are not involved in any bombings in Syria, Iraq or anywhere for that matter. Why would they target Ireland? Why haven’t they targeted Ireland?
@Peter: What’s your point? An attack on any country is too much .Stop trying to defend the terrorists.
Unfortunately it is a certainty that Ireland will be attacked at some point in the future. Jihad against the western infidel doesn’t recognise borders. Catholicism makes us a prime target. It’s time to accept that fact.
@Seamus Wall: The vast majority of these attackers are home grown. So immigration has nothing to do with it.
Stephen there are plenty of countries that have no involvement in Iraq and Styria. Thailand and Phillipines pop to mind. Just google Islamic terrorism around world and you see the lovely influence of Mohammad.
@SteveW: Did were involved in wars with the Muslim countries though
@Seamus Wall: You didn’t answer my question on why would they attack Ireland? The Manchester attack was by a British national so immigration policies would not have prevented it.
@SteveW: Philippines and Thailand both have disgruntled Muslim minorities who have been in conflict with the majority culture for years over a number of issues. There have been sporadic outbursts of violence in both countries regarding these issues for a long time. Neither country is a new arena for such attacks
And there you have it Anne “disgruntled Muslim minorities”. And that’s only two countries I pointed out. What about the other 30 to 40?
@Seamus Wall: You still, again didn’t answer my question as to why would they attack Ireland?
@Stephen Devlin:You are an idiot. Why would they attack Ireland? Same reason they’d attack Sweden or anywhere else who aren’t involved in war — because we’re “disbelievers”. I’m sure they’d probably mention something about Shannon as well..We also don’t want our country going the same was as Belgium, France, Sweden, Germany… Muslim ghettos, unwillingness to assimilate, parallel societies, attacks on women and children… Mass Muslim immigration fails every single time. The pattern will NEVER change.Your lack of knowledge and research on the topic is embarrassing.
@Stephen Devlin: because we are infidels in their eyes thats enough reason for them to attacks us..!!
@mmmcl186:Flanagan is in no position to say Ireland is safe.  And he’s in a government that continues to pump Muslims into our country.
@Karl Waters:That’s nonsense.  Their parents were immigrants.And the ones coming in now have children, throngs of them.  Jihadis 2050 style.
@RyaN9: Total bollix
@Rory Toner: yep that’s the real problem we don’t have a thing to deal with any of this . They haven’t attacked Ireland because there is nothing relevant here . But one of them head the balls may decide go for Shannon or dublin and the government imported a whole lot of refugees for which they will have no provisions . Park them and hope for the. Eat is what foment anger . Idle hands and all the rest . People with time to think allies to people of similar mind . That’s how it happen . Disgruntled home red is the behind picture in every one of those attacks that’s the key to prevent and we got nada!
And the Naval taxi service will continue to pick up the 1000s every week   spreading across the Mediterranean to Europe from Libya etc . Why can you simply stroll into Europe while if you or I wanted to Emigrate to USA, Canada or Australia it takes months of paperwork. Time to say enough is enough and let them sort their own problems out before it becomes ours.
@Philip Kedney: in fairness it was Europe and America that caused and still cause most of the problems and conflicts in the Middle East
@liam hayes: The *governments* caused this sh*t not people but the people are paying for it. Time to put an end to it. Close the borders.
@Philip Kedney: name the refugees that caused this? Oh no they were born in Britain.
@Deborah Behan: born in Britain to immigrants. Stop the immigrants – stop the born in Britain terrorists.
@Deborah Behan: Jaysus Deborah you’d make a great lawyer , The bombers father was a refugee who brought his ideology with him and passed it on down the line to his kids .Remind you of anybody closer to home ?
@Virtual Architect: And who elected the governments?
Roy Dowling. Well the people of Ireland did not elect this present government.
@Deborah Behan: the Manchester bomber was allowed into U.K. as his daddy was fighting Gadaffi. He is not a Brit. Daddy went home and left this clown behind him. We need leadership now to make the non PC decisions. Leo won’t do that. Too many bleeding hearts on this island
@liam hayes:“in fairness it was Europe and America that caused…”In more fairness it wasn’t Ireland.So; why are having to take in throngs of Muslims?
The first priority for any government is to keep its streets and citizens safe. This is the 3rd terrorist atrocity in UK in less than 3 months. Mrs May and her administration must bear some degree of responsibility as the Conservative Party have slashed 10 thousand police officers. If I was eligible to vote next Thursday this would be weighing very heavily on my mind.
@John Ryan: what about the labour mayor of london. What has he done to keep london safe. UK mayor has a lot more powers than most.
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan: Khan has banned scantily clad women on posters on the underground.
@Danny foley: oh and he stated that islamistattacks are part and parcel of city living, nice.
@John Ryan: for God’s sake how is a government responsible for the actions of lunatic behavior, years ago we had war, people new their enemy, this goes back to Bush administration and Mrs, Merkel has a big part to play in the whole affair, just my opinion
@John Ryan: A good start in how to keep our people safe from this toxic ideology is to prevent Islam getting a foothold in Ireland.
@John Ryan: These attacks are being carried out to coincide with UK Elections.
@Conrad Shields: Watch the Daily Mail link this and Corbyns answer to the would he fire trident.
@lavbeer: Where is he going to fire it? Into the city of London?
@Stephen Devlin: birmingham ?
@Danny foley: religion has no place in society as it is ignorance personified
@Anne Kerins:It’s called consequence Anne.You cannot bomb the crap out of the middle east and not expect consequences.
Money is the fuel ISIS thrives on. Boycott their shops and businesses.Freeze their assets and bank accounts. Cut them off
@Seamus Wall: Thanks for sharing that link 4 times.
@Honeybadger197: I never saw this article or take on things, it’s interesting. Food for thought. So yes, thanks to him for sharing it 4 times.
@Honeybadger197: indeed! Is his issue terrorism or Muslims?
@Kevin Slater: Many invoked in Islamist terrorism are known to the authorities. They need to be dealt with decisively and removed from circulation.
@Peter: Both seem to go hand in hand at the moment.
@Kevin Slater: what can you buy in an isis shop.?Burqas,ak47s,cans of oil,?
@Ian Moloney: I hear they sell Vans now
@Kevin Slater: that’s the last time I go to that ISIS Tesco on Leonard’s corner!
@Honeybadger197: Good suggestion. Needs to be shared more.
@Virtual Architect: A link in every home
We have two problems here, the extremists & the apologists, for example, Brendan Cooney, yesterday, explained on another related topic, that we have never been safer… What you got to say now Cooney.
I am completely sure that the 4,000+ Muslims arriving in Ireland to join the 60,000 already here will not contain any jihadi types
@Mike Cantwell: trying to stir up hatred and fear will continue nothing positive.
@Tony Daly: keep loving Islam and hating Christianity Tony….at least you are consistent
Apologists like you Tony continually use what’s happening in the Middle East as justification for these terrorists attacks so it will hardly be a surprise that people in the West might get fed up with your Islamic buddies
@Tony Daly:https://youtu.be/_vUrAMxmO_A
@Mike Cantwell @Tony Daly:Tony is the most drab poster I’ve ever come across. Contributes nothing of use and never offers any solutions.Wouldn’t mind if he was a *good* troll (like that other weirdo Tariq can be at times), but he’s just boring and repetitive. Go on Tony, give us a reply; I’m ready for my afternoon siesta ;D
@Tony Daly: what your solution bring in more so called children who shave and are clearly older than they look, they where on the tv and stating they are board down in middle of now where they want to be near cities  and whats going to happen they will  vanish and reappear in uk or europe, the bleed hearts and lefties are responsible for europe being a target no 1!
We Dont Need Vigils We Need Action,Arrest,Deport And Cancel Citizenship to any known symphatisers,Oh Sorry You Would infringing their civil liberties And they would be at risk if they were deported,but it would be ok to harm the people of Ireland,looney liberals have the world screwed..
@Ben Moylan: I find the British approach of better intelligence, calmness, preparation, proportionality and a sense of composure to be a better approach.
@tony Daly,ya it’s obviously working great for them.
@Teddy: they handle it as well as it can be handled. They won’t be vanquished. They will retain their free society.
@Tony Daly: yeah it’s working a treat.
Plus ca change. So reminiscent of appeasement and the Nazis.Can’t intern. Can’t take DNA. Can’t deport. Can’t have deradicalization programs. Can’t arm the police. Can’t take one politically incorrect step, regardless of efficacy, so the ‘solutions’ are invariably anodyne variants of kumbaya
We had an ISIS recruiter in the country that couldn’t be deported for God sake. Fighters returning from Syria walking the streets of Europe. After the German attack the most wanted terrorist in Europe was just strolling across borders. Europe is a soft target because the laws effectively tie the police’s hands behind their backs. Unfortunately i cant see things changing anytime soon.
Action speaks louder than tweets.
Wonder where the “keep an open mind” apologists are today. makes my blood boil . time to have armed Gardai presence on the streets to reassure people.
@purple rain: Reassure people from what exactly
@Stephen Devlin: What he meant that similiar incidents like what had happened in London last night may happen on the streets of Dublin in future. You knew what purple rain was talking about before you typed in your comment here.
And Muhammad is the highest climbing name here so basically as a society we are like a ticking time bomb until something happens here
@Brendan Coyne: rubbish, it is at #83 so far from even the top 50 names which is due to only 84 children up from 56 or 58 last year. Please don’t repeat facts or claims made by other journal commenter as there is a serious lack or knowledge and ignorance on matters spewed about here daily. To make such a claim should in the very least take 1 minute to verify it before further perpetuating inaccurate information.
“fully in control of the situation”.Hospitals can’t cope with an outbreak of the flu, public transport grinds to a  halt with an inch of snow on the ground.I dread to think of the chaos if an attack happened here.
A whole slew of politicians, including half the Irish cabinet, out shouting and condemning this but what’s all this self important  soundbiting gonna achieve. Trying to make themselves look authorative till the next attack comes. Actions speak louder than words. Actions are scarce with these politicians. No shortage of words.
the irish goverment are living in cloud cokoo land, our guarda are in crisis with no leader both commissioner and minister who are looking after each other, our defence forces have been stripped of experience of counter terrorism experience that they gained over the troubles, and just if they shoot any of these terrorist what do you think would happen, Colm O’Gorman along with human rights groups and the left would be outraged, why did they shoot why couldn’t they use other force, then we would have an enquiry into what happened the a guard or soldier would be held accountable, thats would happen in little oul ireland,  i am afraid the horse has bolted and our country has been sold a pup on emigration into this country, 50 to 100 years from now we will reap the rewards our culture will be gone!! and there will be ghettoes where certain groups live.
Mr Khan said that there is “no justification”. Of course there is not. Another stupid comment. His comments are cause for continuous concern for me.
@Sean og S: is that not the same muppet who said that we should accept to live in turbulent times, or something close to it, after he was elected ?With “leaders” like that – who accept something that is unacceptable, future of the Europe is very dark.
@Sean og S: terror attacks were according to his 2016 interview “part of living in big city”So if a leader of major world city has approach like that… Sheep is leading sheeps….http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/sadiq-khan-london-mayor-terrorism-attacks-part-and-parcel-major-cities-new-york-bombing-a7322846.html
@Tomasz Kuchnik: What he said in that article is mostly common sense. Try reading beyond the misleading headline.
@Reg: common sense that has zero translation into real life. Another name for that type of common sense speech is “talk shyte”. We need politicians with balls who can stand up and defence European values, not politically correct spineless cowards who all they do is to unite in pain and sending condolences letters to everyone when the murders happen.
We need to remove religious instruction from all schools and anyway it is illegal under the Irish constitution and international law.
@Paul Lane: Because religious instruction in Irish schools lead to terrorism?? Think you are on the wrong thread
The P C brigade is on it way out look what it’s taken for Governments to take Action.Take great care when letting strangers into your life.Ignorance is not bliss.My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Britain
@Tony Daly: doesn’t seem to be working out for them recently ,don’t you think ?
It’s working as well as it can be@Ste:
The British demonstrate a civic mindedness, a sense of composure and fortitude. Britain was and continues to be a bastion of liberal enlightenment and decency.As many of the witnesses to the horror and carnage said, they will not allow their values and their lifestyle to be changed by this.I was in London and Manchester the previous weekend. It was obvious that the terrorists will not succeed in their agenda in Britain because the British attitude is one of prevailing and getting on with life. There is a strong culture of getting on with life and not bowing to the terrorist agenda. It is admirable.
@Tony Daly: Why don’t you stay there seen as you love it so much.
Explain thAt to the families of those slaughtered in the name of Allah you idiot Daly
@Mike Cantwell: that sort of excitability and drivel contrasts with the British phlegmatic approach.
@Just Me: I live and work in Ireland but most of my family live in Britain.
@Tony Daly:Here’s a Brit who was never afraid to call it as it was. Admirable intellect and bravery to face down the fanatics and their apologists.https://youtu.be/HHwvT4Xl5Uo
@Tony Daly: i will admit they had the balls to vote out of the EU. So on that from i agree with you. Now they need to finish the job.
@Virtual Architect: Finish the Job ? How do they deal with their own citizens?
Charlie say The Gardai have it under control!! That made me laugh! They do in me hoop!
@Roy Dowling: Roy, would you at the very least agree that anyone coming to Ireland who is not on board with gay rights or freedom of expression and a love of democracy should maybe be told “No mate this ain’t the place for you!” Or should everyone come to Ireland?You should listen to this from 3:30 minshttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l91JHc9-FeI&t=327s
The cops in Ireland couldnt catch the clap off a ten spot hewer, never mind a sophisticated underground terror network.
Armed cops were in position and shot the attackers dead within 6 minutes… And they were too late. Imagine it happened here!!
@Roy Dowling: They murdered poor Margaret Hassan, when she went out to help them.
What’s madness is we keep electing the same ignoramus politicians every time and we’re expecting a different result.
@Deborah Behan: maybe we should look into  inducing  sharia laws into the  irish constitute to make it more inclusive to Irelands rapidly expanding    moslim population  which would be determinedly bad for gay and women’s rights a unseen result of liberal and hard left agenda. ..
@Bobby wilson: I think Deborah can’t see anything wrong with Islam , as they aren’t against abortion .Nothing else matters it would appear .
The Gardai can’t even control our own gangland problem. They wouldn’t stand a chance against ISIS fanatics.
Shocking?
@Roy Dowling: just wait
Charlie go back to bed and the back bench.
Just focusing on the headline here. Mr. Flanagan doesn’t know what he’s talking about, or that we know he’s spouting absolute rubbish. We know that the Gardai are not in control. If the top security guys of the UK and France are not in control, then neither are we. Don’t patronise us.
@Blue Moon rising: You’re right on Mr Flanagan (no relation of mine – thank goodness!). He seems to have forgotten the threat of Al Qaeda attacking our good ol’ Republic of Ireland because of Shannon Airport facilitating U.S. planes for refuelling on stopovers.http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/paris-terror-attacks-ireland-named-4953503
@Seamus Wall: you’ll have to educate me on Ireland’s Muslim terrorist problem. Racking my brain here but i just don’t remember any Muslim’s attacking us.
I wrote a comment here with more than 700 likes and seamus wall responded, see in the thread; about my direct day to day experience living in Germany. The journal deleted this comment the cowards. In the comment I gave my direct experience living in Germany; in the second largest city,  I said that MUSLIM young men do not integrate to Europe and they harass German women I dare anyone to challenge me on this. Especially a loser editor in the journal  …the journal censored the comment because it was the truth ….MUSLIM REFUGEES in Germany are wrecking the cities and the people have had enough. The journal couldn’t investigate anything for themselves. .glad I deleted the trash app. People need to wake up big time as to what your tax is funding
Flanagan is talking complete bollox as usual. The Gardai and anyone else are not in control of the situation, nobody is.Due to Shatter closing Templemore to save money there is a shortage of Gardai and will continue to  be undermannedFir the forseeable future. I always think when the government say that everything is kosher, that is the time to head for the hills!
@Ben Moylan:  factually incorrect and logically fallacious. Nice combination.
will the sf leader in the north condemn these attacks on london while attending a ira volunteers commemorating like she did after Manchester.
@dead right: Stop trying to use the atrocities in the UK to gain political capital here. Isis have already murdered Irish people, they are a common enemy of us all.
@Mr Phil Officer: not making any capital atall just pointing out the hypocrisy of Michelle condemning a bomb attack on Manchester (which was not as big as the one(s) the provos exploded) while commemorating the east Tyrone brigade who where the deadliest of all units .
@Mr Phil Officer: terrorists murdering irish people is not a road a provo sympathizer should be going down
Where’s our intelligence service? You can’t leave this up to the guards, they’ll spill their tea
When Goats lie down with lions.Lions will eat the Goats.
Hard to believe we have this idiot in charge of our country with this going on.
@Dermot Keogh: not to worry Dermot, we have the empty vessel, the sound bite, taking over soon.
@Dermot Keogh: thankfully, Ireland is not directly affected and highly unlikely to be affected.
@Tony Daly: you must have not seen  RTE Primetime on Thursday about  islamic extremists operating in  the 26 county state over recent years. ..
Try get some perspective on this guys. We have not had a terror attack yet. Last year 600 people died from suicide and 250 from road deaths.  These are far greater threats to our people than the possibility of a terror attack. Many here use terror to vent their racist/islamophobic views. The same people hated travellers before they targeted Muslims. Most muslims are peace loving people.
@Paul Whitehead: Paul, suicidal thoughts and traffic accidents don’t form networks and plan out their strategy. Think about it man, come on. There’s a massive difference and we need to tackle this.
@Paul Whitehead: Get real, you Islamic troll/Muslim apologist…Islam is NOT a religion of peace as you claim. Muslims want nothing to do with people of other  “inferior” religions and they have no desire to integrating into mainstream culture. They only care about introducing Sharia Law here and in other European countries. They view liberals, LBGTQs & independent women as lesser humans, not worthy of living in their eyes.
@John Flanagan: As I said “Many here use terror to vent their racist/islamophobic views” I was referring to hate preachers like yourself John.
Brexit is the problem in England.
@Mary McDermott: Go back to bed
@Mary McDermott:Brexit is the SOLUTION.
@Ben Moylan: You need to do a bit more reading on terrorism in the world in fact there are many Catholic terrorist groups
I think they need to concentrate more here in Ireland on the gangland criminals. The recent find of explosives that could blow up a street or more.
@Audrey:Nah.
The slave religion
Confidence and Gardai mentioned  in the one sentence and approvment by Mr.Flanagan will no doubt reasure everyone in Ireland that all is hunky dory on the corrupt little island.
So the May witches dip in the polls has nothing to do with this? Elite can’t allow Jez to take the helm so expect more of this…
Thank god for including the Arianne grande tweet, I was just wondering what she made of those event’s
The Gardai aren’t fully in control of themselves as evidenced in the antics of late. There’s no way they’re in control of terrorism opportunities in Ireland.
Statements such as that you attribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs really need moderation as they throw down the gauntlet to organisations like Daesh and the “lone gunman” type of terrorist now coming centre-stage.
In the latest atrocity attack no knives were used, no explosives were used and a van was used. The attack was quickly contained and the three terrorists rightly and decisively killed within 8 minutes.  All in all, that is a situation under control.  It was frightening and horrific for those who were victims and saw what happened but it does not justify an immoderate and extremist reaction.ISIS wants to the UK polarise and to exacerbate tensions between the majority and the moderate Muslims.  Each of us should ask ourselves if we want to fulfill the agenda of ISIS.
@Tony Daly: Please stop cranking out so-called “facts” here as no-one cares on what you view/comment on the latest actrocity committed in London last night. Don’t you realise that you come being close to being a patronising tw*t out of yourself?
@Tony Daly: They did use knives, you stain.
@Tony Daly: Out of all the nonsense peddled in this comment section, I often find yours the most irritating. You are completely delusional and out of touch with reality. You should really take heed of the thumb ratio that your comments on this issue receive. That’s not to say that journal thumbs are always correct, but if I posted something and regularly got the response that you usually get, I would take a step back and reconsider my position.
It is in the nature of Irish people to overreact. We lack composure. We are excitable  and alarmist.We respond to the Jihadist agenda.
Paris , Berlin , Manchester , Stockholm , Nice , Brussels etc etc are we ” overreacting ” to those attacks ? , rapes , sexual assaults , riots in Paris , Muslims over represented in Jails throughout the major European Countries , high unemployment , lack of assimilation , forced marriages , honour killings the list is endless and then we will have demands for Sharia Law oh happy days
@Tony Daly:Speak for yourself, old man; we know you’re a terrorist/Muslim sympathizer ;D
@RyaN9: that shows that you are not thinking.ISIS and Jihadism are hoping for an over reaction. In a real sense you are playning to the terrorist agenda whilst I oppose it. .
@Tony Daly: The only opposing you’ve been doing is opposing any action being taken to sort out the problem of Islamic fundamentalism .Who gives a rats about isis , they are just one group in the bigger picture , and that picture is now showing at cinemas across Europe , the main star is islam and the director is Saudi Arabia .
@Ben Moylan: Irish terrorists are so superior to Islamic terrorists
Yes Charlie shut your cake hole and don’t be egging these nut jobs on
Charlie Flanagan pit stop ass thiking Ireland is not a target, and Garda there too busy covering Noreen behind to even protect our citizens.   Ireland is a target, maybe not in top 10 but we still allow American troops land. Wake up dead beat ministers stop playing Russian roulette with Irish People
Yeah high,erve the FCA on standby
anyone that helps the yanks will get it, im wondering what is shannon runway used for or is that old school
@Paul Culligan: Do you apologize when the Westboro Baptist Church pickets a funeral or when the IRA do an attack?
Where or when the species will strike next is not known all that is known isThat unlike animals who kill to eat these just kill.National boundaries are open and so we are all targets to the ideology of Death
We’re fcked so!
Like it or not there is blood on our hands while the yanks continue to use shannon
Ha ha Flanagan is delusional as the gardai don’t have a clue and he knows that
Why unlikely, but we don’t sell weapons to anyone??? Unlikely is not the same word as never?
@Alois Irlmaier: Shannon airport?
…….
Hon the Banner
Theresa May was Home Secetary for 6 Years and done nothing about the Islamisation of England.
Heading to portugal this year on my holidays, while im there i will be promoting ireland and irishness while i sink a few pints…can i get the Govt to pay for it… #juncket
Who would listen to a leader of a Country that has just been ousted….
@Peadar Ó Gréacháin: A very respected man overseas. As is President Obama who has also left office.
@KerryBlueMike: building up his contacts for the after dinner speech circuit at our expense
@KerryBlueMike: kenny is only respected by the few top guys in the shambolic FG party and nobody else. The eu people don’t respect him, they like him for giving them money and use him for favours.
@KerryBlueMike: Didn’t Obama ignore shaking hands with him once in front of the cameras?
That’s us fooked so!
I’d say the same people that are moaning  about Enda going on a trade mission think the economy recovered all on its own .
@james comiskey: What has been the benefit of this recovery to the ordinary citizens of this country? Why are so many people not happy with this government? Did you ever stop and think about this James! Could it be that the recovery is only helping the few and not the majority? If this is the case then what do you expect people to think
@james comiskey: Is that what you call junkets now. Here was I thinking Enda was milking it before he sits on the back benches .
@james comiskey: James there is no recovery in the EU. This government would have you believe that crap but Europe is falling further and further behind every day. Kenny looked after all his pals and the foreigners he sold us out to. Nothing will ever change in Ireland. Run for the elite in crowd.
@Brendan Keegan: exactly and as we have a debt of billions we won’t be recovered for many years despite the BS spouted by the Fine Gael’ers
Who’s he meeting…
The trough is ever giving.. Forever at the teat…
@Willy Malone: Yeah, he should sit on his arse at home so as not to offend the perpetually offended.
Promoting tax haven status and a leprechaun economy!
@Adrian: Secret trade deals to create the new USAEU?
Two day Trip lol it takes two days to get there, you might run out on time
Another holiday lol.
kenny trying to get the yanks over for a fleecing!
He is meeting up with the Bilderbergs
@Bank of island: Why is his hand as big as his face then???
Say hello to al
The things people do for Chicago style pizza!
He be better off staying there
He is gone to play Roxie Hart and Merkel is playing Mary Sunshine lol.
With all this hype and campaigning you would swear the general public had a say in who we want to lead our country…
@Paul Cunningham: We do whoever gets it will be leading the blue shirts into the next general election. Hopefully its not Leo the hatemonger Vradker.#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: he doesn’t hate welfare cheats, he just seeks to stop them stealing from everyone else. Taxpayers might support that as a reasonable position to take.
@alphanautica:  I agree with the catching of Welfare cheats but Leos campaign is about spreading hate. Giving people permission to stick their noses in to private affairs of others as opposed to leaving it to the trained social workers who understand the full complexity of individual situations. It may increase the numbers of people caught but it gives a licence to all to invade our neighbors business. It is a campaign of hate pure and simple in my opinion and I am not alone in that opinion as we have seen by the response to the campaign.Personally I believe the reason Leo ran the campaign was to up his advertising spend before running for leader of the party.   With a spend that big on advertising how is any editor going to run anything other then a fluff piece like above on the man.#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: stealing from social welfare is not a ‘private affair’ it is criminal theft.The Irish system is already one of the most generous in the world. Double or triple-dipping needs to be rooted out.
@alphanautica:  I agree 100 per cent alpha on social welfare fraud being theft but I don’t believe in this case the means justifies the end.  The campaign looks for people to invade their neighbors business and form opinions on their lifestyles. In some cases it will be successful in catching criminals but there will be a massive amount of collateral damage to individuals who have committed no crime.  A lot of people on social welfare have mental health/health issues which only a trained social worker might be aware of.Similar to his time in time in Health were he cut funding to Mental Health services. As said by me and many others Alpha it is a hate campaign and in my opinion ran purely to curry favor with the media.To me it is designed to spread hate and distrust in to communities. The only logic I can think behind it is that Leo needed to push up his advertising spend with the editors of all the daily before the contest for leadership began.#anyonebutleo
@alphanautica: Mortgage contracts are a fraud. Are illegal according to EU law.Contravene consumer protection law. The selling on of mortgages have none of the required protections in them. Banks are engage in wholesale mortgage fraud, which has resulted in hundreds, if no more, families loosing their homes, some people have committed suicide. There is also huge fraud regarding the insurance taken out to protect the mortgage.The government knows, the banks know.What’s being done about that fraud that costs ordinary people millions every year?
@Paul Cunningham: its not how irish politics work. You elect your representitive who in turn votes for the leader. Irish people have voted fg, therefore giving them the power to decide
@alphanautica: How about they go after the cheats that ripped off the Taxpayer such as the Bankers, vulture funds and the like. Leo goes after the ordinary person as he knows these are the people they may actually catch. I don’t believe anyone should cheat but be fair we have people walking out of court free of the theft of this Country. And not only that he is trying to get thy neighbour to spy on you sound like something Trump or Hitler would do. Plus he is trying to be the leader of the Country too with out one vote from the public to do so, just brilliant that all we need a dictator
@Charliegrl80: our 1st openly gay dictator at that! Bit OTT, don’t you think?
@Squarepeg01: nope not OTT – I have no problem with a persons preference and being a voted in leader of this country – I would have issues with Leo’s policies, he’s only interested the Super Rich
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan: people definitively did not vote for fine gael
Whoever gets it, it will be neoliberalism, first, foremost and last. Joe public will still be mere cash cows for the rich, taxed to the max, the destruction of society will continue.
@Dave Doyle: Cheer up now. There maybe something positive going on in the world somewhere. Also, you’re being bitterly pessimistic with the whole ‘destruction of society’ thing – go and watch something funny on the TV and cheer the hell up.
@Dublin Rover: Two words, the second is “OFF”.
@Dave Doyle: Of course it is. And a good morning to you too.
@Dave Doyle: Shout a bit louder Dave – its hard to hear you all the way over there in Bulgaria.
@Dublin Rover: And good morning to you too!!
@Honeybadger197: Give’s a chance, it’s still early, but the sun is shining, skies are blue, i’ve tempered the chocolate, filled the molds, let them crystalise, now in the fridge to detatch, life’s good!!
@Dave Doyle: Do you ever think rather than cribbing and crying all the time maybe you should strive to join the “elite rich”. The only problem with you joining them is that unless you win the lotto you actually going to have work your ass off to do so. My suspicion is that your actually allergic to hard work.
@mickmc: You snide generalities show you don’t have the first clue about life for ordinary people. Just like Kenny, Varadkar, Coveney, etc.
@Dave Doyle: LOL. Your good for a laugh anyway. Did you ever try stand up comedy. The only think I have in common with Kenny, Varadkar, and coveney is that I work for a living. You should try it every now and again.
@mickmc: How unique. Do you want a medal?
@Dave Doyle: No I’d be happier if layabout like yourself contributed to the country in a positive manner rather than constant negativity. And you know what after a while you’ll feel better in yourself too.
@mickmc: I couldn’t give two flying ones what you assume about me personally. Now go chew your nails or find something useful to do.
@Dave Doyle: makes no difference who gets it, each as self-serving as the other.
@Dave Doyle: i second that comment!
Leo Veradker will be S superb leader of FG and bad for Ireland.Veradker is heartless, very right of centre, no social conscience, a denier of the link between poverty as a factor in bad health, he has a strong and instinctive dislike of the lower income classes and an austerity approach to economics.Veradker dislikes the perceuved softness of the Social Protection system and is strong opposed to the role of Social Protection and  progressive taxation in privudying a mild counter balancing effect against extreme inequality.It’s all about neo-liberalism, the free market as a solution to everything, non-intervention in the housing crisis with public funding and a monetarist view of economics.Leo will ensure the protection of wealth and privilege. He is an Irish Tory.Leo represents the current values of FG. He loathes the old social justice policies of Garret Fitzgerald. Pure undiluted and hard line capitalism for Leo.He is the grandson of Margaret Thatcher and the son of Tony Blair.
@Tony Daly: no intervention in housing? Plenty of intervention, but designed to overheat and increase prices and costs
@Tony Daly: Wow you seem to know so much about Leo….except how to spell his name.Just think how many other things you’ve gotten wrong about him.
@Tony Daly: the best social conscience is one that is committed to allowing people make their own choices without interference by the state and to keep the rewards of their enterprise and hard work.
@Tony Daly: Very accurate appraisal.
Good bloke, intelligent etc, but a vote for Leo means paying twice for water.
@Stephen:  A vote for Leo will take the country down a horrific road he is the most destructive leader this country will have ever seen. No mention of his sinister time in the US or the hundreds of millions he has spent on advertising on every brief he has has since becoming a minister. I would say he has spent more on advertising then any minister in the states history. The medias darling for a reason.Hopefully FG will not inflict Leo and his ambitions to tear the country apart -If FG bring out this monster then hopefully FF will pull the plug and we can vote.#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: I reckon Leo will pull the plug, catch FF on the hop, aim to solidify support in an election, then let the destruction begin!
@Stephen: A committed neoliberal globalist.
@Dave Doyle: As in the American machine has helped him climb the greasy pole of Irish politics so quickly?#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: ” the hundreds of millions he has spent on advertising ” – can you expand on that please
@brian boru: As in his guiding political dogma.
@Chef Harold: In every brief he has held he has ran a massive advertising campaign with a huge spend#wildatlanticway#anyonebutleo
@Adrian: god help us all !
@brian boru: wildatlanticway should never have been advertised. It’s a neoliberal capitalist cycling tour of the impoverished west coast for the bilderberg elite to gawp at the millions of starving Irish peasants, lying prone on the roadside, crippled and scarred with agonising austerity.There, I finished your idiotic rant for you.
@alphanautica:  I thought it was a  great campaign and a good use of public funds – A lot of business’s I am involved with have seen an increase in profits thanks to the campaign and had been looking for something like it for years.Are you a fan of Leo  Alpha ? you are really sticking up for him these days?#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: ” hundreds of millions  ” ?
@Chef Harold:  I am prone to exaggeration….apologies but I would love to see the actual spend since taking office,
@brian boru: you’re making me like him more and more… He seems to be terrifying all the right people.
The Sinn Fein supporters here must be anxious and confused about a leadership contest that is openly contested.
@Honeybadger197: all the pieces of paper with gerry’s name on it are put into a balaclava by the army council and one is selected at random. The process is beyond reproach.
@Honeybadger197: what the f.. has SF got to do with it troll?
@Gus Sheridan: QED Gus.
@Honeybadger197: lol @ the chip on your shoulder over SF. Im not really a SF voter but ive become so disillusioned with FF and FG pandering to bankers and european’s desires im steadily moving more and more towards SF
Leo or Simon are at least a new generation of politician. Simon was hugely effective as Minister of Agriculture. Always on top of his brief and brought in good policies to encourage young farmers into the business. His current housing role is being portrayed as a failure but you can’t change a broken planning/financing  system overnight.
@Desmodromic: Coveney has deliberately made decisions and introduced new measures to further increase prices in an already overheating property market. The only thing that helped cool the market were the central bank measures which Coveney challenged at every opportunity and when that failed he introduced new policy and tax measure deliberately designed to circumvent the central bank rules.
@Desmodromic:  a new generation of rothschild puppets doesnt make a difference since finne gael and fianna fail are controlled opposition  Vladimir Lenin said The best way to control the opposition is to lead it ourselves
Have not seen the journal lose the run of themselves like this since pat kenny move to news talk.leo the darling boy of the Irish media vs Simon bilderberg corporation coveney,nothing will change in Irish politics with these two goons
I wonder will Leo be launching a more wide ranging general tax cheat campaign if he becomes taoiseach? Or would the wrong people be getting investigated with such a strategy? ie: friends of FG. Maybe it’s just easier to target the less well off. But all tax cheats cheat us all don’t they, regardless of being rich or poor.
Can a tax haven nation run a tax cheat campaign?
The issue is whether the Irish public will realise that political parties are about self-promotion and self-survival.  It’s no use saying politician should be this and should do that.  Politicians care about getting elected and getting re-elected and getting into governement and getting ministries and then getting to be Taoiseach and then staying Taoiseach.  Policy is determined by lobbying.  It is the Irish public that has the ultimate responsibility to determine what our politics is and how our politicians behave.  At present there is no evidence that politicians need to be concerned about the public acting together to make it clear that none of the scandals and none of the compromised policies and non of the damage and harm to citizens will be allowed to go on.  Each of us has the right and responsibility to really think about what is going on and what needs to be done differently by us.  What is happening in this country is just not acceptable.
@David A. Murray:Well said David all the plaudits they are all giving Kenny yet they knew if he had stayed on fg would face meltdown in the next ge (still might) its all just a game to them and to hell with peoples lives.
How can they let a guy who, being a doctor,who knew the state of the HSE and when “in charge” couldnt do that job suddenly be a contender to be “in charge” of of the party thats “in charge” of the country? Are FG serious or still as delusional as ever?
what a steaming heap of blatantly bias promotional fluff piece muck this is. where’s the bit about him being a proven liar and a failed minister?  The man is a self serving snake. “22 months is a relatively short time as a minister”…any reason why?  “a persons sexual orientation does not impact upon their ability to do their job BUT…” ahhhh so you are saying it does really matter and it’s a solid reason to have him as leader. Coveney is not much better by the way, ticks most of the boxes in what I’ve said about Leo.
The banks aren’t getting another cent .Mmmm , which spoofer and  bare faced liar said that .Oh wait …. good man Leo.
Is there no end to the conveyor belt feeding Ireland with awful “leaders”… they all have two things in common:1 They are very rich2 They have no interest in tightening the rich/poor divide which is pulling our society apart, with people feeling more and more disenfranchised.
Another drop in standards for the country.
@@mdmak33: Too many drops and IW will be out in force lol.
Good article. I think Varadkar seems like the better option. Coveney has been a career politician manipulating his way to this opportunity in my opinion. Not that a I’m overly informed though it has to be said. Good luck to whoever gets in.
@Dublin Rover: has he ever actually done anything, though, apart from talking about everyone else’s job?
@Dublin Rover: the reality is they are two freemason rothschild approved central bank endorsed  crooks pretending to oppose each other
@gamescentrel: evidence is?…….
@Gus Sheridan: it explains why the goverment is so F$%kd up
This piece is advertising !
@Terry Cahill:  Paid for by points earned spending the DSP budget ! You don’t think the campaign to catch social welfare cheats was actually about that.There is not an editor in the land can run an impartial piece on Leo after all he has spent since becoming a minister#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: Yes Brian, Ive found all your conspiratorial comments on Leo balanced, fair and concluded in a gently ambiguous way. #hypocrite #brokenrecord #hashtag
@Honeybadger197:  Take them chains off and question your masters, fool
At least he speaks his mind. Could possibly be more of an honest politician then, maybe.
@Keith Healy: “honest” and the word “politician”  in the same sentence? Please explain?
I mean what has he ever done apart from coming out? Nothing but a big mouth.
@The Irish Bull: Seetec might disagree?
I’ve mixed feelings about Leo. I think he’ll be a positive re social liberalisation and  our backward stance on church, abortion, drugs etc. His right-wing Tory stance on economics will be damaging to society long term though.
Looking forward to fresh FG leadership.Changing out the old guard right across the aged jaded talent-impoverished Irish political spectrum can only be a good thing.Micheal Martin and Mary Lou are far beyond their sell-by date.
@alphanautica: fine gael are foreign owned crooks that serve the satanic elite (((1 percent)) banker terrorists owning the central banks
A failed minister twice over becomes taoiseach.irish politics.
From the establishment parties we get bosses. Never real genuine leaders.
@Dave Doyle: Ireland does not have a single REAL leader and thats the problem we exchange different gormless muppets every few years but nobody of any significance. A failure can rise to the top in Ireland…Cowan, Kenny for example..
Looks like Leo is the medias favorite as he’s getting 90 % of the press and tv coverage. Poor auld Simon. Looks like an accountant. Think that’s the issue.
The one definite I am certain of is Vardaker is a political sprinter and when the gradient is not downhill Leo will opt out like he did in health.Coveney is the real winner as he is perfectly positioned too in a short time exact sweet revenge on the power hungry ministerial so called colleagues who backed the winner this time. When you see fitzgerald side by side with Leo a perfect statement of whats to come cover up !!cover up !!
Go Leo Go
@Anastasia: yes please, about time.
@Anastasia: leo a globalist sellout coveney another globalist  sellout theres the illusion of choice the banker elite controlling the central bank (((rothschilds )) appoint them
Brilliant news. Time we pulled this country to the right. For too long we have had crazy leftist polices wasting tax payers money. I think he will be our most able Taoiseach ever
@Kevin Spencer: Kevin are you sure your first name isn t Frank?
Great a gay taoiseach wtf he will be useless at world affairs as most are anti gay well done tds and ministers make sure you get your pay rises and job adjustments
Blah, blah, blah! Considering the poor quality of our politicians, who cares where he was born, educated, whatever!
Love the Leo
@Anastasia:Membership score element of Electoral College, noted above, should read 35:65 not 65:35.The Leo didn’t win all three, similar to The Donald’s experience in greatest Democracy in the world last November.If 25% = 20,000, how can 75% = <500 ?The 10,000 or so folks from the Membership, who actually voted in this contest, must be feeling a tad miffed this morning that their voices counted for so little in arriving at the final outcome.The process seems a bit outdated and redolent of a bygone era.
Does it not depend on how good their ministry is and was? Both now seem to be the ministry of sound lol.
There’s a guy in Pettigo-that’s in Donegal-who gives a fukk about this but no one else does.
fair play hope he does a better Job for the  future of republic of Ireland. Respect
New santa clas ask for your wishes now. the amount of media on him now not a easy job jesus
ah! he won fair and square, with a little help from the media, we will do the autopsy in two years time when FG follow the PDs Labour and the Greens down the Toilet. For now , best of luck to him..
Anywhere else you’d be optimistic that new and younger blood would instigate change in Irish politics.. .and genuinely new way of thinking. Not the civil war, totally unfit for purpose style of politics we have now but a genuinely progressive way forward. But then you see the corruption in this country and you remember that both of these guys have come through the FG ranks and sadly all optimism quickly evaporates .
@Tony Skillington: The so called similarity between FF and FG has been much talked about, maybe with Leo as FG leader people will find it easier to see that Fine Gael are the party of the elite, and I suppose the elite are entitled to be represented as much as the serfs, it is a democracy after all, but at least the pretence of FG as the people’s party will be well and truly gone , so maybe it’s a good thing they do today, break out the Beaujolais ..
@Gerry Campbell:Yeah…except half of the FG front bench are school teachers…so very “elite”…
@Fred Jensen: What an extremely naive comment to make.
@Fred Jensen: school teachers, thats the main reason for all the incompetence. School teachers are trained to teach, not get involved in national politics with national economics, finance and business. They eff up and we all end up paying for it.
@Fred Jensen: You wouldn’t want a nurse instead of a skilled surgeon to perform major open heart surgery, yet the people who vote for these incompetent teacher come politicians, stupidly think they can run major state departments. I don’t see many private companies rushing out to grab and take advantage of martins or kennys management skills.
So, it’s either the millionaires man in the room, who thinks class warfare is a good election tactic, or the billionaires man in the room, who treats the democratic will of the people as an inconvenience to his ends.Christ, it’s like having to pick which strain of flesh eating virus you want infesting your undercarriage.
@The Risen:That’s Fine Gael for you. Telling the Irish middle class what they want to hear since 1933. Then taxing the fcuk out of them when the going gets tough.Has to the most boring, mundane and unremarkable leadership race since…well…their last one.
@Tweed Cap: Heres to hoping that Leo gives the middle class a break via less tax and less freebies for the #Entitled.
@The Risen: Beautifully put!
@The Risen: Still you have to look at the alternative and lets be clear there is only one viable alternative. FF approach is to give everybody tax cuts and to hell with regulation of banks shur well all get rich and have a great time!
@snac: Keep your class divisions to yourself. They are not the entitled they are the rightful. People have Rights. Thats justice. It happens in a civilised society so I am sorry to express that inconvenient truth.
@James Lenihan: “let’s be clear ” kind of an indication of your preferred alternative .
@Gerry Campbell: I dont really have a preference between FF and FG but you have to accept that any government formed in Ireland has to contain one of them.
@snac: Aaaaw poor snac is obsessed with those on social welfare and is ignoring the super rich, the vulture funds and the bankers who rob us blind many times over!
Leadership Elections provide an fantastic opportunity for the thing missing most from Irish politics – a debate on policy.Having a leadership election allows a party to sound out the views of its members on alternate focuses and directions, while at the same time provides feedback from those outside the party. Just look at the attention given to Leo’s potential policies – it is rare that a policy is ever evaluated in its own right. Far too often Irish politics is just about the name – the media rarely bother to critically evaluate what was said, and just focus on who said it.If Leo wins the election but loses the members vote, he’ll have no choice but analyse why. Most will focus on his perceived move to the right – and recommend he corrects that. The leadership election process should help to knock the “rough edges” off his persona and policies. He’ll have been given a clear message by the membership to get back to the centre.Overall, difficult to argue it has been anything other than an extremely positive process for FG. They are at their highest in the polls for years, are 9 points ahead of FF and have had a variety of potential policies vetted both internally and externally.I’d say you’ll see other parties copy this template (though not exactly – still need to deal with the problem of a lopsided early political part declarations – that needs fixing).More people will have voted in this leadership election than any other. That is a good thing. Hopefully the days of a leader being chosen in secret in a back room by unnamed figures with zero transparency are over. I sincerely doubt any party would dare ignore the membership in future.You never know, some might even grow brave enough to have a contest in the first place.
The way the Dublin media practically tried to force Covenney to step down a fortnight ago as the pushed as hard as they could to say Varadkar was a done deal. I would love to see Covenney take it and watching some of our spineless politicians do a u-turn would be mildly entertaining!
@Lord Clanricarde: It is going to be a wipe out. Fail to prepare, prepare to fail…
Not a fan of either..both as useless  as chocolate teapots but i’d prefer simon to get it just to put leo back in his place..he thinks hes the all singing all dancing modern irish man but his thoughts and policies are as antiquated as the party he serves . Ps was anyone else as peeved as me hearing enda kenny saying dont let the b@stards knock you down…you do know thats the irish public he qas referring to … so we are b@stards for trying to have control over the politicians that we pay to run this country… nice to see how we are perceived although not shocked
@Elaynehb: well said
Simon Coveney should get the job.Varadker is too smug.
@gerry fallon: Or you know, maybe they could count the votes, rather than use your personal bias?
It’s a totally worthless and irrelevant event for most people. There’ll be zero change. Just one dishonest corrupt individual replacing another.
And yes folks, it’s the Leo and Simon show or the Simon and Leo show.Fed up with real politics and real  social issues. Then enjoy the the unspeakable and the unsayable clash for your entertainment.Forget about homelessness, destitution, social exclusion, malfunctioing health and justice, just  indulge yourselves in the personality competition.
Either way we are at a loss
Well, whom ever gets to run the Blueshirts, don’t expect change for the better… Most likely new taxes a good bet within what’s left of this farce of a government. Meole will pull the plug shortly..
@Willy Malone: Meole will do nothing. Hes a gutless politician and his sole interest Is the leader’s salary and expenses to build a “little” nest egg, hes just seeing out his time now and then the golden handshake and six figure pension and he’ll be off too!!
In Ireland we pay high personal taxes and get very little in return…..Leo might do something about this and media portray him as some sort of  right wing politician….His tax policy is well to the left of Jeremy Corbyn….Does not even plan to get rid of the USC
@John003: Actually there is a large cohort who pay very little taxes but get a huge amount of freebies. They are the #Entitled.We have the highest social welfare in europe irespective of what you earned in the past. Even in Sweden, which the left often reference, they pay social welfare relative to the tax you paid in the past.
@John003: Someone earning 30k pays about 15% in all direct income taxes and scocial insurance. That’s hardly draconian. The problem starts at 34k when you lose almost half of anything you earn above that amont. That needs to change.
They could have elected a pope quicker.
Wow a new leader for FG? I’m so excited not……
Statement of the week: It is highly likely either Varadkar or Coveney will become Taoiseach!!!
The tension is very bearable.
Hopefully whoever wins will be open to working with parties and independents  who want  stability and progress on critical issues. Some smaller parties will continue there negative approach but they are best ignored as the majority of Irish people will when it comes to the next election.
@doorhandler: Don’t worry the cosy little arrangement your party FF have as false opposition to FG will continue. The coalition of the snakes in Irish politics is what it’s all about . Whose turn at the trough next ? Two cheeks of the same ar#e.
@Just Me: You don’t really like democracy I take it. Anyway you guys keep shouting from the sidelines while FF lead the opposition in this country.
Just passed gov buildings and tried to picture the rainbow flag fluttering where the tricolour is
The comments section of this website has become a depressing place. Its clear that the “go-getters” are clearly out hustling and making money. The rest are on here. Anyway, off I go. Need to pay for my 3rd holiday this year.
Larry Fitzwell make it a long holiday
“TDs aren’t the only ones who decide however, with MEPs, senators, some 235 councillors and 21,000 party members eligible to cast a ballot”What about the rest of us taxpayers? we have no say in this… jebus wept
Would it not be strange to have the leaders of FF & FG from the one county? Has that ever happened before?
@RMcG: Garrett and Charlie, although Charlie I think was a Mayo by birth and adopted Kerryman.
Leo is a handsome, flamboyant gay man, darling of the media and D4 set, the son of an immigrant.He will do well, the country may not.
A Bilderberger running our country. The Rothschild’s will be pleased.
A Bilderberger running our country, the Rothschild’s will be pleased.
Ah, I see the Boys in the Bland is playing again. I wonder what the soundtrack is like this time around? Cohen’s “Old ceremony, new skin” maybe……
New lapdog for merkel u mean
Won’t be watching/listening to any RTE, TV3 broadcasts for the next few days. Will the sun rise on Monday …. I think so
It be a bad new start unless FF get good budget social welfare & min wage increases. FF pull the plug now or secure proper budget increases for the least well off or FF, you will get what Labour got
Here we have a crisis in Garda Corruption, a housing crisis and hospital services meltdown year on year.. and whats the media interested in – a beauty pageant between two political parasites.
They never asked them their favourite Beyonce song.
Leo is right about his favourite animal the Aardvark-a very sneaky individual who hunts in the dark-He kind of looks like him too.
@Bennythekid: he will need to change his first name to Pinocchio, there is some nose on that animal!!!
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair: similar type snout alright.
Never trust a person who takes pineapple on their pizza or eats their eggs runny.
…because we’ll have seduced your wife! Go team pineapple/runny eggs!
Who really cares? Andrex or Kittensoft? All going down the toilet anyway.
Searching questions,that reveal a lot about all Parties ,Don’t become “Journal Lite”
@Brian O Reilly: White or Brown… Envelope lol.
Well this article is utter shite.
@stefanovich: or a bit of fun! Lighten up!
@Mary Lyons: Fun, maybe. Definitely not funny or insightful though. Rubbish questions.
Simon cant love animals that much if he supports chasing them with dogs with the hope of catching them and ripping them apart!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5SEDI-fYX3YTwo snakes who will carry on where Enda left off. Lets hope the trend of the main parties losing public support continues and we might eventually get someone to run the country with the best interests of the people at heart.
Manhatten Cheese & Onion beats them all
these are the really important character defining questions… by this I’d be leaning covney!
Rónán means little seal, but I’m not a complete narcissist so seals are not my favourite animal.That said, the pineapple on pizza thing is very important to me so I’d have to choose Leo over Simon.
Very sad reflection for Ireland that these type of childish questions were being used when we were looking to elect a LEADER for the country
pineapple on pizza is an abomination before God and Man. Anchovies, capers and olives is the way to go.
Being a Taoiseach and a mushroom are similar, they are both Fungis to be around lol.
Jog on Kenny, I’m sure there’s plenty of regrets regarding electing you
@willypearson: Presided over the the biggest waiting and trolley crises in the history of the state. Presided over the biggest evistion rate and homeless figures since the great famine. those are just a few of his legacies and he says he has no regrets. Typical delusional blueshirt.
@willypearson: and on €150,000 pension that we are paying for willy
@Just Me: who would you have had as ladder,,,
@Michael Fitzgibbon: it’s time to try something new and not the same old FG FF crap over and over again. People are afraid of what they don’t know
@Michael Fitzgibbon: Well not the 42 year do nothing TD  that’s for sure. Someone with backbone, puts the Irish people first before and above the interests of the vultures who Kenny allowed to strip Irish assets bare.Definitely not to be found in FG.
@Just Me: he inherited a failed FF economy led by Aherne and Cowen both who ran away from the electorate
@sean o gorman: And made it worse.
All these issues would be 10x worse were it not for EK’s firm leadership.In a field of populists we were lucky to have a solid man at the helm.Hopefully the new blood is of similar principled mettle.
@noel, don’t forget the near €400K golden handshake. I assume it’s tax free, probably even USC exempt.
@alphanautica: I have wished they would bring the red button back, but reading your assessment of Kenny I propose they bring back the red and add a ‘laughing till I cry’ button as well
Delighted to see the back of him. One of the worst leaders the country has ever had.
@Derek Lyster:He was no leader, a caretaker perhaps…being generous.
@Derek Lyster: How old are you?
Enda Kenny’s legacy is to leave behind a country more corrupt than when he became Taoiseach. He done a fine job for his masters.
@Dante Marquinhos: he’s just allowed it be revealed. It was even more corrupt in the past. Thank Kenny for allowing the light to shine.
You let us down Kenny. No time for you what so ever.. Can’t see that changing with Leo or Simon…
Nolite te Bast.ardes carborundorum.How very Roman Emperor of him, although I suppose it’s fair to say no-one could ever accuse Enda of having a low opinion of himself….
I presume he is referring to himself as “THE B*ST*RD “.
@John Killeen: I think he means us, the whinging citizens. To him we’re just numbers in an election announcement.
Coming from the biggest b*stard of them all! NB: The Journal.ie rejected the B word stating it was offence, buy yet they’ve used it? So it’s ok for them to use it but not the commentators?
Only Kenny the emperor can use it it seems..
Few people outside his constituency in Mayo will be sorry to see him go from the Irish political scene. The height of arrogance to say he has no regrets! Jaysus man show a bit of humility.
Act in the interests of the bast*rds who get you down??
@SteveW: Ah sure they’re all whingers…. ;-)
@Davin Ryan: as this forum will attest ad nauseum
Interesting turn of phrase, as not actually Latin, but the closest literal Latin translation is “not fit to grind down the outlaws”, which I guess could paraphrase his time in office.
$poof€r, I hope he joins Bertie in the allotments and they grow a few more magic mushrooms, he’s been taking them for years!!! Spaced out of it living in a dream land, Goodluck
Any Political leader who loses 35%  of his party’s seats in one election should be shot, not praised…
Ha! My comment wasn’t allowed because I repeated the B-word in the headline!
Good riddance.
Enda should have loads of regrets. How he treated the people of Ireland. As for his latin advice who did he aim that at his party or the people of Ireland. He will be no loss just another politican that feathered his nest.
Elder statesman at last bows out ,with advice on how to deal with the electorate
On almost 200.000 a year and half that in expenses, I’d gladly take the sh!t the Bast*rds threw my way………
Good riddance ya horrible b@stard
The only bas&€rd in this country is you Kenny!
@Adrian: Really? Just the one?
Legend
@John Brennan: Bellend a
@Mary Murphy: A man who took instruction well from Merkel and that will in part be his legacy to many?
Kettle/pot
So Kenny can say the B word here but we the people can’t. Why is the the B word not allowed here. Are we that much afraid of free speech in 2017.
I don’t think enda done a bad job. After all look at what he was left with from them filth Fianna Fáil
Nice to see what he really thinks of those of us burdened with keeping him extremely comfortable for the rest of his life. Disgusting.
yes mr kenny paddy wants to know, now we know what you think of the people who bailed this country out, all the promises new politics , sack ministers who are not up to it, corruption is rive in this country, just look at the guarda management a minster who along with her commissioner who should have been sack but know they will get a big pay and pension like yourself mr kenny, maybe answer your phone oh a job with the EU. well i for one will be glad to see the last you! thanks for nothing!!
Note to everybody in the country.Don’t let these b@$tard politicians get you down!
Transparent and new politics my hole. Good riddance to you enda.
Well it you know what they say it takes one to know one
Opposition my hole.It’s truly an old boys club, where the interests of the country are only a side show.
Finally, let’s hope he doesn’t pull anymore delays.
Don’t let the door hit you in the back on the way out hopefully full of rusty 6″ nails with manure on them you traitor Ethna Kenny Cromwell
He’s the biggest b@st@rd of them all!!!
In Fairness to Kenny – He is Responsible for Fine Gael and Fianna Fail coming together to seize Power since the Last General Election.Confidence and Supply Agreement.Ingenious Avoidance of Coalition Tag.Cute WhoorismUnique Irish Solution to Irish ProblemIt’s the Way He Smiles Cunningly and uses his hands and fingers.We Always Have Michael Wring to Fall Back on….Another Genius
@Bernard Banaghan: A coup?
Is that what he thinks of the democratic process now?
ass
Good, and I hope I never lay eyes on the lying, treacherous (unt again.I hope he enjoys his 30 pieces of silver knowing the suffering and hardship he heaped on the Irish taxpayer
Enda Kenny not answering direct questions, why change a habit of a lifetime?
Kenny never answered a question covered up for 6 yrs in government.
oh! wait til we hear the back stabbers make em-passionate speeches about how he served his people well.  vomit ,  bucket come to mind…
I’m just thinking back to the final ‘Peanuts’ comic strip where Charlie Brown finally got to kick the football, and was wondering if kenny will finally answer a question he’s asked.Here’s hopin’…..
What legacy?
Kenny wasn’t the worst of them, considering others who our knowledgeable electorate voted in. Like Haughey, Cowan, Ahern, Burke, Flynn etc.
Fank Pulman. He is up there with the worst of them.
@ray.farrelly: Rubbish m8. As bad as Haughey who we elected time after time, knowing his impossible lifestyle and propensity to be bribed¡¿
@Fank Pulman: What happened to Paul Foot and Pendragon 917. Can’t figure out which was the worst of them.
@Just Me: Twitter account now permanently suspended! Congratulations you pillock…
@Fank Pulman , Now how was that when I replied to Paul Foot your account pops up. Naughty, have you not got enough confidence in yourself, whichever that is, that you have to have multiple accounts. Or are you always so stupid, or is today a special occasion .
@Just Me: Lewd behaviour got you the permanent ban from Twitter – and I’m stupid? What does that make you?…o/
@Fank Pulman: Who am I answering now , you or Paul Foot , You have so many identity’s It’s hard to keep up. Troll on Wank or Paul whichever suits at the time. Low self esteem is usually associated with people of your type
Clare, as usual,is bang on right !
The minister for everything is getting found out,the Irish media have been rather quiet about the leadership race the last day or two after there darling boy Leo seems to be letting his lead slip a bit.hopefully leo the Tory blows it because his bad for the common people of this country
@dick dastardly: the tory … What about bilderberg SimonTwo of them are the same . More of the same
@dick dastardly:The reason the Irish Media are being quiet is cos nobody cares about fake contest
@dick dastardly: Irish Times story from 2014 using @CampaignforLeo twitter handle.Journal – think you should amend the article to include the fact that he has been publicly been using the slogan for 6 years at least.In fairness, it works for all elections – not just leadership contests.
@Brinster:Here’s the link –https://liveblog.irishtimes.com/fe040e921b/Cabinet-Reshuffle/
@Brinster: Fair play Journal – can see the article says this now.
Leo is a bull$hitter if he expects us to believe that.By the way, an Irish Independent poll yesterday had the public backing Coveney 64% to Varadkar 36%.The politicians are not listening to the people.
@Tom Burke: Irish independent poll.     Yep …..
@JustOneScoop: it’s not scientific but I wouldn’t think it’s too far off the Mark.Leo is Brexit.He has the numbers but it’s not reflective of public opinion.FG need to be careful not to foist him on a public who don’t want him.
@Tom Burke: Story is demonstrably false.Here’s a tweet from President Higgins from 2012 using @CampaignFor Leo.This is fake news.https://twitter.com/presidentirl/status/830890837559083010
@Brinster:Apologies to all – my link above was to a tweet from 2017, not 2012. My mistake.Here’s  one quoted in the Irish Times from 2014 though –https://liveblog.irishtimes.com/fe040e921b/Cabinet-Reshuffle/
As quoted in article ” fail to prepare, prepare to fail”.  Simons campaign was holed beneath the waterline before it got going. Bleating about his opponents preparedness  sounds like sour grapes.
@Eamonn Duggan: in fairness he had a day job as well thought Leo does have to comment on other minister portfolio. Look let’s be honest here, Leo has been prepped for a long time and the TD backing him ramped as soon as the bandwagon took off even before Leo vision was published. Lack of backbone in that party has cost the whole country dearly.
@Eamonn Duggan:His twitter handle has been @campaignforLeo since December 2010.He’s clearly been using the slogan for years.This is really scraping the bottom of the barrel.
@lavbeer: Leo the lip.Engages his mouth before consulting his brain.
@Eamonn Duggan: someone should tell Leo that it was Benjamin Franklin who said that  long time before Roy.
Leo is fond of the porkies.
@RG Law:Well this story doesn’t stack up.Here’s a tweet from President Higgins from 2012 using @CampaignForLeo.So it’s verifiably true he’s been using the slogan for years?https://twitter.com/presidentirl/status/830890837559083010
@Brinster: Tweet is from Feb 12th 2017, not Feb 2012
@Brinster: he might have been using the slogan but he’s formed the website in preparation for the leadership campaign. That’s the point.
@Ciaran Twomey: Whoops – you are absolutely right Ciaran – my mistake.Here’s one from 2014 – as quoted in the Irish Times –Here’s the link –https://liveblog.irishtimes.com/fe040e921b/Cabinet-Reshuffle/
@Tom Burke: Zero evidence for that though, Tom.If your major social presence is on Twitter, it makes sense to align the other media with that.@campaignforleo works for all elections, not just leadership contests.
@Brinster: His people told TheJournal.ie that the creation of the domain was part of a move to create consistency across Varadkar’s online presence. Go on will ya … it’s not the preparing that’s annoying, it’s the porkies.
2 gobs hites
@dublinsnap:“It’s me verses Dublin” and now the “Prepare to Fail” negatives show Coveney’s camp as a bunch of choirboys singing out of tune.
public is not going to get who they want , just like Joan Burton taking the Crown from Gilmore, it will just speed up their demise….
Enough of these 2 prcks already
@Eddie Byrne:Pinocchio to replace Pinocchio.
A bit of a non-story.  Enda made it clear in February that he was going “soon”.  It would be more surprising if any who considered themselves as potential successors did not begin preparations “months ago”.
A choice a rich boy from Dublin or a rich boy from Cork. Both cut from the same cloth. Leo is loved by the media because he had an opinion on everything. Not exactly leadership material. A general election would tell a lot.
What an utterly ludicrous non-story. So Leo actually prepared for the leadership campaign and his opponent is irked! If you want a job badly enough aren’t you expected to prepare? This goes beyond sour grapes and looks like sheer naivety. Simon thought he had it in the bag.I would rather a person as Taoiseach who is prepared and who likes to win than someone who simply complains about someone who is prepared and has a hissy fit when things don’t go their away. In any event two Corkmen as leaders of our main political parties is one too many. They have a big enough chip on their shoulder as is.
Hardly newsworthy
Leo is Brexit.He has the numbers but it’s not what the public majority want.The public prefer Coveney 64 to 36%
@Tom Burke:Huh?I think Brexit is a terrible idea, but to say it isn’t wasn’t what the public wanted is ridiculous, given they had a referendum on it and 52% voted for it.
@Brinster: it’s not ridiculous.Think about it.The Irish independent poll has the public favouring Coveney 64 to 36
@Tom Burke:Link to this poll, please?
@Tom Burke: Also, I’d say FF and SF supporters would far prefer Coveney.Varadkar scares them.
@Brinster: don’t give me that.Look it up. It got very big coverage.Look at the Indo news page. Google it.Use your imagination.Anybody else here verify this poll?The Irish times poll also verify Coveny is preferred.
@Tom Burke:I saw the Irish Times one, Tom. It was close – 42% to 37% among FG and 48/44 among non FG.Have gone looking for the Indo one you quoted but can’t find it anywhere.I did google it, as you suggested, and I can’t find it anywhere.So again – link please?
I don’t quite get why Leo is the popular candidate in FG. He’s alright, a politician who announced the move of a maternity hospital to his own constituency to co-locate with an adult hospital that does not have the specialties, facilities and expertise that makes the co-location worthy, but I guess that’s politics.It’s really more of the same.
NEWSFLASH!!! Nobody cares about the outcome of this sham fight by two second raters for an extra pension to be purloined from the public purse! The result of which has already being decided by the FG grandees who see it as an opportunity to disseminate their lies and raise the profiles of these two dullards! Simon has already being bequeath the position, the coronation will go ahead as scheduled! Leo is probably lucky to be slipping in the race, if he had an unassailable lead I feel pretty certain some issues would arise requiring him to withdraw! Let’s have a real election! Roll on #GE2017
Politician sets up website. I’m failing to see the story here. There’s plenty of actual reasons to criticise Leo. This isn’t one.
Good to hear The Journal’s media studies interns have figured out how to use the Whois register. Expect more sensational revelations before this well runs dry.
Talking about the important things as usual.
I see a storm brewing too lol.
Good god .. there’s no end to the lies in this country ..
@James Reilly: what lies?
@James Reilly: Leo beats Martin every day of the week, we need a good leader. Plus who can forget the IW flip-flopping by FF! Shameful, childish and unhelpful.
@james connolly: Your’s
@James Reilly: You look very different without the beard James
@Just Me: switch accounts there again shinnerbot
@Just Me: why did your parents name you ‘just’ shinnertroll?
@James Reilly: liberal alert? FF got us into the mess and FG got us out of it. More prosperous then we have ever been
@james connolly: lies are when cortupt fine gael and fianna fail spread false information
@James Reilly:clearly everyone feels better about fine gael because kenny is gone, and noonan is gone, more or less. it won’t last but if simon softlad harris, francis feeblemind fitzgerald and some mitchell yoke were to go, FG might even look like a decent partner. be a damn sight better than a bunch of half-brained independents in ministerial position. farmer gael couldn’t even muster the number to look crap on their own after the last election.
@James Reilly: except for the evidence based facts you quite obviously don’t want to hear
@alan scott: Prosperous? Are you well in the head? Honestly the people of Ireland truly baffle me at times (regularly)!!!
@Brendan McGill: ah SF. You lot are the worst of the worst. You will never ever get a vote. Go near my door with your cheaply done  sympathy leaflets and il run you. You have the worst temperament of any european political parties. Your a embarrassment to this c
I’m no supporter of Coveney but what in your opinion qualifies Leo for the job or as you’ve put it “Leo beats Martin every day of the week”, I’m just curious to where the basis of your opinion comes from? Not trying to be argumentative just curious.
Apologies correction I should have said “I’m no supporter of Martin” in this conversation. A side note, I’m also not supporter of Leo or Coveney, in fact I’d nearly go as far as saying I’m no fan of any of the corrupt ilk ruining this country
@James Reilly: It is worse than lies, it is bullsh…t.
Same circus different clowns……doesn’t matter which of the two is in government. The wealthy will still live in a consequence free country and the ordinary worker will get squeezed for every last cent.
@Darren Mccarthy: Have a look on YouTube for Mouseland. Sums up politics in this country perfect
@Yenreit: Your not far off with that one. We are all good little mice!
@Darren Mccarthy:Spot on, Just look at the events of the last few weeks/months, and come the next election it will more of the same. In fact there’s no party that has the best interests of the entire nation.
@conriel: Some of them start off in politics with good intentions but as soon as they get on the gravy train, its goodbye morals.
@Darren Mccarthy:Fair point
@Darren Mccarthy: it’s FF that got us into this mess not FG. And while FG had some hipcups along the way I can see the light at the end of the tunnel. And a vote for Simon is a vote for the common people of Ireland, unlike Leo who is a elitist snob who will  care of the wealthy. Leo does not understand the working class system. He is a doctor afterall.
Theres only one truly accurate way to guage the moid of the voter, and it can’t come soon enough.FF should have pulled the plug on water charges beford FG swapped leader. Serious error.
@The Risen: Agreed. They could well have missed the boat.If they fall 5 or 6 points behind, they won’t want to be seen to be the ones to pull the plug, either.Could leave Varadkar in a strong position.Hopefully he does something with it. An extra 5,000 social houses would be a start.
@james connolly: Unlike you I’ve never been banned. I don’t use twitter. Abusing people, is that what you call pulling you up on lies. Your next account name should be Billy Liar.
@Diarmuid: we seen the vile underbelly of the SF/IRA trolls this week. truly truly harrowing
I would expect a general election within the next 12 months especially if we see a “Leo bounce” in the polls. FG could be heading towards 35% especially as the economy continues to do very well.
@Fred Jensen:Bounce is to be expected, given the increased coverage and no surprise that Kenny’s approval is highest after he announces his leaving.Varadkar’s first response to the last election result was that he expected FG to be in opposition, so I don’t think he’s afraid of an election.If he sustains the bounce, it will really put FF in a difficult position. He can push ahead with items that are borderline/outside the Prog for Gov, and dare FF to pull the plug and call an election no one wants, with them behind in the polls.He’s far too cute to call one himself.
@Brinster: they could teach the Mafia a lot!
@james connolly: Surprising comment there James. There is no way FG will receive 40% of seats at a general election – 25% is much more realistic. Homelessness getting worse / a laughable excuse for a police force / employment rising primarily because of zero hour contracts …. and this week’s shambolic collapse of the Fitzpatrick trial etc etc. Varadkar is a far-right, gaffe prone fraud and he’ll be found out quick enough (assuming he wins) as the incompetent he is.
@Fred Jensen: Oh yeah, like the Burton bounce, I see how that works.
@John Ryan:votes are not the same as seats. 40% of the vote in a GE would possibly allow FG to govern alone with a majority.
@Fred Jensen: just to be clear, as I appreciate there can be a divergence between % of vote and % of seats due to our PRO system. FG will receive no more than 25% of seats and no more than 20% of the vote . They will be extremely transfer unfriendly, almost toxic in fact. They will not receive any level of transfers from FF, SF and the other left wing parties/alliances (Labour are a centrist party so they are not included).
PR system
@John Ryan:No more than 20% of the vote, even though they’re polling 30% even before Leo is elected? You’re sure about that?
@Fred Jensen: yes Fred I’m sure about that, certain in fact.
@John Ryan: “FG will receive…no more than 20% of the vote”PP would give you very, very, very, very long odds on that.For a reason.Think there might be some wishful thinking there, John.
@Fred Jensen: Both FF and FG’s % of the votes in the last GE barely made the 40% mark. The share of votes they have received in GEs since 1983 have been in steady decline.Given the scandals the government lurch from week in week out they will be lucky if they suffer what Lab suffered.There’s a scandal in Cavan CC being kept quite by the media. It will be interesting to see who’s the beneficiaries of that.Another huge scandal is desperately being kept under wraps, goes back 10 yrs, is ongoing, and involves state agencies. When that breaks, it will be the end .
@Dave Doyle: FF plus FG made 49.9%, Dave. And that excludes Renua and gene pool independents who came from FF and FG. Reports of their demise have been greatly exaggerated.
@Brinster: I did read it  barely made 43% combined votes. Doesn’t matter the decline will continue.Varadkar will make Noonan look like a pussy cat.
@Dave Doyle: I hope not.If Coveney wins the “popular vote” with the membership by any margin, it will be a pretty clear message to Varadkar to modify his message and soften the harder edges to any policy he may wish to implement.
fantastic news, all the hard work is paying off :)
@james connolly: goes to show what people thought of kenny pity he retired….
@james connolly: Is that you BH ?Stick to the day job – good man
@Peter donnelly: endas legacy is secure, the man who saved ireland :)
@Just Me: the judiciary is independent shinnerbot, you are going to have to take your rage elsewhere. A shinner talking about truth? absolutey hilarious, and you wonder why we laugh and laugh and laugh
@james connolly: And ren morons support that comment or are you just deleting the cookies?
@Just Me: well they cant be delivered by storks now can they shinnerbot?
@Just Me: and you wonder why no one takes you clowns seriously
@james connolly: What work, the civil servants do all the work?
Only in Ireland could you get 12% more popular simply for announcing your gonna finally f off
Fg media propaganda is always being their best and only policy in government.
@Gerard Heery: saving ireland was the policy and boy did they succeed, its no wonder they are the people choice
@james connolly: 75% don’t want them.
@Just Me: 87% dont want your lot, why do you think that is? morally bankrupt perhaps?
@james connolly: But, But, But, Stutter, Stutter, Stutter, Whataboutery is no answer. Enjoy your time sitting beside Labor trying to get speaking time that no one wants to listen to.
@Just Me: 13%, would you consider that a success? PMSL
@Gerard Heery: The Red C Poll said they would vote the Seanad out of existence, remember that?
Yes an election would be good idea get rid of this Dail unable to make any decisions….We will have a chorus from independents and SF in media saying election will change nothing….Not so sure about that…. Less independents will be elected next time….
@John003: there are oly two parties, everything else is a spoiled vote
@John003: why they only make a mess of things when they are allowed to make decisions
@John003: I don’t think you took your memory meds this morning, Sf have been constantly calling for an election.
@John003: I disagree. The independents have brought a lot of balance. No guillotine in use this term.
If FG are foolish enough to think a momentary bounce because of all the coverage is going to do them any good during the intensity of a GE campaign they deserve to lose.
@P.J. Nolan: Luke 4:24http://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-05-25/assigning-credit-for-the-irish-economic-miracle
How can anyone be daft enough to keep voting in the same parties who trashed this country? Are you all sadomasochists or what?
@Scundered: FG saved the country
@Scundered:Because they believe hard left policies would be worse.We need something new in the centre  in this country.
@P.J. Nolan: How about the “honest” party? There’s a big gap in the market for that.
@Scundered:Unfortunately a “honest” political party is only a pipe dream at the moment.” Everyone knows FF/FG/ Lab don’t keep there promises, but most people are afraid SF/ Solidarity etc might try keep theirs”
One word for this country : #Doomed
How any true Irish man or women could vote for any of the three main party’s ff fg lab is be on me look at what they are doing and have done to the country people need to wake up these shower are only in it for themselves and there friends just ask seanie the Irish are blind
And they will shoot themselves in the foot again by electing varadkar as leader.
I despair of this country.
Fianna Fail are losing ground because of their ambiguous posturing on the Garda Commissioner business. They’re supporting a Government that supports her, while they DON’T.    What self-respecting voter could get their head around that sort of doublethink?
Public are begging for a GE to fumigate Leinster house from FF,fg, labour.
@@mdmak33: then we would be left with SF/IRA and Solidarity the Left behind alternative. We would become the new Venezuela.
What’s the point in political parties? Only idiots take them seriously. Dictated to (and bankrolled) by the banks, supported by the press and voted in by flag-waving surrender monkeys. Go on, get excited about nothing.
Increase is down to that pillock kenny finally taking the hint & leaving
To the Taoiseach for people who get up early in the morning, Leo Varadkar I say this.There are people packing shelves in supermarkets at night, security guards, cabin crew working for airlines, getting up at 3 am (a lot earlier than you Leo) to go and work on zero hour contracts.Please don’t be so patronising Leo.
Coveney any day ahead of Varadkar.FG jumped the gun endorsing Varadkar without listening to what the people want.If you think this country is right wing now, you ain’t seen nothing yet.What has Varadkar achieved in any department he has been in?
I think their incompetence over Seany getting off will come back and bite them.
@Rob Cahill: nothing to do with FG, judiciary is independent
@james connolly: How can the ‘judiciary be independent’ when Fine Gael are appointing the judges ???????
Yep.. Gotta be true ☺Will Yee fu(k up with the shite …Wind of change upsetting all. Together these 2 will score worse again … Mehole knows this and hence the farce continues ..
I wonder how many of these people polled were finegael supporters & what had kenny done to get high satisfaction rating
What porportion of irish citizens read the Times?The headline is Absolute nonsense.
@Stephen Maher: The poll was partly funded by the Irish Times, not limited to Irish Times readers.
Vardakar is probably the closest thing we have in this country that’s close to a Macron. Huge bounce coming Fine Gael’s way.
@Darren Bates: Yeah remember the last one, the Burton bounce. Remind me again how that worked out.
I wonder how many of these people polled were finegael supporters & what had kenny done to get high satisfaction rating
In the race to the bottom.
@Brian O Reilly: Who’s bottom lol.
Leo was 9 when GFA was signed and so grew up in peaceful times. So I don’t expect the were you in the Ira response when asked a question by Adams. That will be a good first measure of Leo ability to lead
@lavbeer: Was Gerry Adams in the IRA???
@Craba: The only thing jorry has left to deny is that he is jorry LOL
@james connolly: That’s easy to deny halfwit, his name is Gerry.
James connolly. How is the driving school going Dane??
@Craba: of course that is a well known fact. Democratic law would go out the door if he were elected god forbid. SF are good at giving out but they are all talk no action. One SF councillor promised my community lots of inprov
If this poll is representative of what will happen at the next general election then the Irish people deserve to be treated with contempt by the ruling class. Why should our so called elected representatives have any respect for us when we let them walk all over us time and time again. They must think we are stupid, pathetic fools and are therefore treating us accordingly.
Ff fg 2 cheeks same ass .. same lies same deceit nothing has been achieved by these to corrupt parties . Robbing the country blind in the name of austerity.. homelessness up hospital s in crisis Garda scandal banksters scandal selling off everything Irish . Fg appointed judge in Sean Fitzpatrick trial jury manipulation. Set up to fail before it started . Drumms case will be the same . Not 1 person held responsible for banking scam .. only the people of Ireland robbed by a governance dictatorship that’s corrupt thru an thru ..
Irish independent poll for next Taoiseach has Coveney preferred by 64% and Varadkar on 36%.FG need to listen to the people.Politicians need to swallow their pride and switch allegiance or the public will punish them.
Ah I just thought mayve it was a poll taken during a FFG rally!! Otherwise I cannot fathom the stupidity and especially with Shinners as FF lite
Meehole martin has missed the boat with his arrangement to keep his salary coming in and keeping his cushy position in the dail, he thought he could wait for 2 years for his position in polls along with the corrupt liebour to improve , but now if varadkar (a phony) gets in he will be a distant runner up for a long time.
FG shouldn’t lose the run of themselves. Between Neva Enda’s long goodbye and leadership race, the spotlight has been on them since Feb. If FF TDs didn’t turn up for work for the past three months, nobody would have noticed. Least of all the ADHD media
F*#king morons is all that comes into my mind. Really is the sheeple mentality
How are FF still in existence! Mind boggles
Once again, commentators endlessly criticising and complaining. Question: what sort of Ireland would you actually like to see? People can do and say what they want, but the reality is politics was and is thus, a dirty business – not just in Ireland, everywhere.
Just shows the  amount of stupid idiots there are are in Ireland. Look at the two idiots who will leading this country soon.  Its just a well Merkel tells them what to do.
So Enda leaves and their popularity goes up???
The ambulance service, the hospitals could not cope. They are running daily at 100% . If there was a large attack or disaster in the country we would not be able to cope.
@Martin Sinnott: If a good plan is put is place and rehearsed, we might have a chance. Plan for possible attacks at Croke Park, Aviva, 3arena, racecourses etc. We’d have to use coastguard and Air Corp helicopters (maybe legislate for secondment of equipment/crews from NI), and basically throw people out of A&E to make space. Our infrastructure is what it is unfortunately, so it’s incredibly important that the state prepares for the worst.
I would think there are emergency plans in place at Dublin, Cork and Limerick/Ennis hospitals in case of a major emergency at one of the airports so I would think it would be only a matter of extending that plan to cover possible terrorism attack.Where I think we are ill prepared is the security to 1. Prevent and 2. react to such an attack.These teams should be meeting 3/4 times a year and not just as a reaction to events like Manchester.
@Martin Sinnott: correct the reason soo many people died in the Dublin Monaghan bombings was because the country is totally unprepared to deal with the aftermath of a terrorist attack . The reality is your more likely to survive a terrorist attack  in another country . Many people died in Dublin Monaghan bombings because doctors where completely inexperience in dealing with bomb blast victims .  If the same attack happen north of the border your chances of surviving would be greatly increased .
@Sean O Brien: The reason people died in the Dublin, Monaghan bombings , was on account of the lax security. I was caught up in the attack, thankfully not seriously injured, the Doctors. nurses, medics on the day were true hero’s as were the people in the vicinity who dug for and carried the dead and injured. The   gardai under the direction of the FG government of the day only had one objective, the putting down of the Republican’s and turned a blind eye to loyalist terror.
@Martin Sinnott: If there were to be a big disaster the likelihood is it will be a plane crash, rail crash, chemical explosion etc. You can’t go about your life wondering what will fall from the shy next. Keeping the Yanks out of Shannon would be the best protection from a miniscule terrorist attack in Ireland. Tell them to take their bombs and missiles somewhere else.
@George Roche: Jst to inform you , along with your recommendations, we actually don’t have any nursing staff and a shortage of senior medical staff so maybe we should get planes ready to evacuate to England !
@Just Me: id say you were on the grassy knoll also shinnerbot… #clown
@Ted Logan: How would they get past all the trollies choking the corridors.
@Ted Logan: 3/4 times a year? FFS! Minimally, weekly meetings are required, with ongoing contact daily with reviews and updates as each change arises. The price of our freedom is perpetual vigilance. Rational action, taken in time and maintained on high alert.
@james connolly: I’d say if you were there the smell of your sh#it would have required gas masks. And spinal injuries would’nt have been a concern, you have’nt got one.
@Diarmuid: No, It’s just you Diarmuid, all your posts are porkies.
They’ll probably debate it in the dail, set up a committee, wait for the report on the committee’s findings, pay themselves extra for appearing the committee, should have solid guidelines on how to move forward on this in about 5 years time. Only problem is the terrorists ain’t gonna wait till the Irish gov are prepared.
@Adrian: it would make you laugh if it was not so serious!!They can’t organise a bed for a homeless family never mind take on an Isis threat
@john g mcgrath: they should get the homeless to fight isis. Now that’s problem solving.
@john g mcgrath: so new iodine tablets in the post then…
@Adrian: Mickey mouse would run this kip better.
Several things need to be done. Apart from the security risk to the general public we are going to have first responders going in when everyone else is trying to get away from an incident. How can we expect our paramedics firefighters Gardai and army to go into a situation that there is no planning or specific training for ?  Also why on earth don’t we have a separate intelligence agency ? Ireland will fast become operational headquarters of extremist activity in Europe  if we don’t properly resource our agencies. That’s if it’s not already happening and the real reason we haven’t had a terrorism incident here. Low profiles and no spotlights being shone only ” monitoring ” . We need to get our country up to speed and we need to do it now !!!!
@Catherine Sims: ‘Ireland will fast become operational headquarters for extremist activity in Europe’ . . . some top notch hysteria there.
@Dan: Hysteria ??? Ok. Please take all your inside knowledge on the subject to the police and the media so. I’m sure they would appreciate it. It we have under resourced agencies dealing with international terrorism we ARE going to have more fund raising groups and other activities going on here. We had fighters here who returned from Syria. Our government ” monitored ” them. The UK put them on trial. Please don’t tell me we aren’t an easy target for people wanting to go undected.
@Catherine Sims:  A separate intelligence agency ? which in all possibility would end up spending all its resources/funding investigating corrupt politicians and dodgey dealings among Noreen’s band of Merry men.
@Catherine Sims: So Catherine you have gone from ‘operational headquarters’ to ‘fundraising groups’. Maybe its you who should be sharing all this inside knowledge you have. You will need to get your story straight first though.
@Catherine Sims: There is a major emergency plan for every county in Ireland. In Dublin less than 6 months ago Dublin fire brigade hosted a multi agency major emergency exercise which consisted of a terrorist attack on a concert. The national ambulance service, garda, army and DFB all took part. The major emergency plan involves freeing up E.D departments of non emergency patients in the event of a large scale incident. This also involves a cross border co-operation aspect if required. Please god we will never have to use it but we would not be lacking in our response.
@Dan: trust me ireland is a soft touch and is a major transit point and we have numerous sympathisers and recruiters living here FREELY
Don’t believe the hype and give up all our freedoms cause of a few extremistsTerrorism is at its lowest level since the 1970′s !https://qz.com/558597/charted-terror-attacks-in-western-europe-from-the-1970s-to-now/
Is these islamofacists want to target us it will impossible to stop the reality is we don’t know them , some of these” Indian ” restaurants are like clearing houses with people constantly coming and  going . Imam Noonan in Galway has raised concerns about extremists among Muslims here not that you would know from the compliant media
The threat is already in Ireland ‘ recent arrests by Garda in relation to terror activities have been as a direct tip off from UK US & European Security’so forget about the Garda having intelligenceIreland will be targeted and its only a matter of time before this happens’ if terror factions can kill Children do you think they are about Ireland and it’s neutralityEurope needs to work as a Union and close all Borders’ restrict movements of persons of interest ‘ attach Militarily to European police forces to flush out and eliminate any threats that exist.We need to be looking at Banking movements too as these move money around all the time and don’t use main stream banking but transfer bankingAnyone associated with terror should be prosecuted to the highest achievable punishments
@Mark Walsh: If they do target us I hope its where the real terrorists are Dail Eireann.
Will be the shortest meeting of the year no doubt.. ah but sure not to worry another meeting will be along shortly in the year dot.
We’ll be grand!The homeless administered first aid in Manchester and most of our large towns have plenty of those!On a serious note we are anything but prepared.
We should have a stand alone intelligence service, nobody has any faith in the Garda.
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: yes your right, riddled with corruption and thugs in uniform
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: Untrue! The Tánaiste does and so does the Garda Commissioner. So you’re wrong, completely wrong, there are at least two who believe in the Garda Síochána. There may be others.
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: Untrue! The Tánaiste does and so does the Garda Commissioner. So you’re wrong, completely wrong, there are at least two who believe in the Garda Síochána. There may be others.
Do our defence forces have their own ambulances that could be put to use in an emergency? Even a small number would make a huge difference in the initial few hours.
@George Roche: yes several
@George Roche: 6 4×4 ambulances and a handful of regular ambulances stationed around the country.
@George Roche: sure Fianna Gael would love to abolish the defence forces.
Start by throwing out all those in hospital due to self abuse, that should make plenty of space.
@Scundered: People making comments like this should be banned. You are targeting vulnerable people like Varadkar. What kind of sick people are Fianna Gael.
@Scundered: I reported your comment and i hope the Journal does something because I was banned for less.
Garda figures released state that  over half a million terror attacks were foiled in 2015.
“Minister Fitzgerald – Dublin City is under attack, what’s the response?”‘I’ll be in Dail Eireann first thing in the morning to set up a committee to look into the unfolding crisis’
@Saul Cusack: But the politicians wouldnt care. They would be protected. It is ordinary people who would die. Lets face it the people get hurt politicians hide.
A dedicated Intelligence Agency on the same lines as MI5 would be a beginning. Placing the burden of State Security Intelligence gathering on an already over stretched Garda Service is going to lead to something being missed. We are the only country in Europe that doesn’t have a Separate Internal Security Agency running in parallel to the Police.
@Mick Jordan: Get the healy Raes in. That should sort it.
I’m guessing that’s a short meeting
Army ranger wing wud handle the situation as good as any others, they may be short in numbers but lack nothing else for the job
@Slim Browne: always wondered why we didnt use them to crush the evil provos
@james connolly: Once again I wish you would do some research into your topic , the army rangers were set up as a military unit which would be able to secure towns and roads into the north to help in the evacuation of the catholic/nationalist community .A ranger unit operates in behind enemy lines to secure objectives and help in evacuations . The Irish military got the idea from a WW2 operation in the Phillipines , the raid on Cabanatuan . But like most organisations in a poorly funded army , have had to adapt to needs .https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raid_at_Cabanatuan
@Ken Hayden: The troll that is presentlyJames Connoly is just one of many aliases he uses. He’s not the brightest in fact he’s depriving some village of an idiot. But the good news is, he’s usually banned fairly quickly.
@Just Me: I recognize his style of words , I think he was all over the George graffiti story . I still enjoy having a pop at him though .
@Ken Hayden @james connolly: Wouldn’t bother with him, Ken. Obviously a complete weirdo.
Lets just kick everyone out that doesn’t have a bloodline since before say the Vikings arrived.
All these resources having to be set up. What a massive cost.
can you imagine it. A fella in a shed with a computer with windows 95 connected to a web cam watching a field,
Sergeant Mikey Murphy from Westmeath with his big ears beer belly and red face is the man to stop them
we are rangersjolly jolly rangers
Government agencies meet today to assess Ireland’s preparations against f̶a̶l̶s̶e̶ ̶f̶l̶a̶g̶  terrorism
Wafflers
I’d say we’d just about get a poet organised afterwards !
I have zero faith in our emergency public services including the gardai
Hospitals are full to bursting, ambulances dropping off sick people waiting in a queue. So NO we won’t cope when there is a terrorist attack here. It not a question of if but when.
2.5 million people live in Greater Manchester Area, and they managed ti scramble 60 ambulances to deal with the incident last week. How many could we muster for Dublin? My guess is its not 60. In Cork or Waterford – possibly 8 to 10 if they pool resources. In Limerick or Galway probably the same. There isn’t even a plan here for any one of the Emergency Services, not to mention a co-ordinated response. Emergency workers would do their best, and risk their own lives to run towards the scene – but then have to wait for years for the “root and branch” review to identify the shortfalls – without blaming anyone obviously for lacking the foresight to even have a plan. Scary how unprepared we are.
Radicalisation is a weapon of mass destruction triggered by remote. We must find a way to neutralise it.Let me share this, in case anything I have experienced or learned is of any use to anyone in finding a real way to prevent and/or reverse radicalisation.https://exiledweb.wordpress.com/2017/05/25/i-think-someone-tried-to-radicalise-me/I am updating whenever anything relevant occurs to me.I am contactable through twitter, facebook, or the blog.
They wouldn’t know what’s Ireland and where to find it
Open borders and the government forced redistribution of people will result in endless cultural conflict in the form of terror.  There is not many examples in history counter to this.Ethnically homogeneous countries have little problem with terror – multiculturalism is the greatest lie perpetrated on western peoples in recent years.
@james connolly: Have you nothing better to do than troll around these comment sections? Saw a few your posts today and honestly, you come across as a complete loser. Get a life.
Burn it burn it all.
Same sex marriage doesn’t put bread on the table of the poor.
@Jack Cassady:Low unemployment rates do though. I’m not necessarily a FG supporter but no one can deny that there has be an impressive reduction in unemployment rates
@Tweety McTweeter: The gig economy pay & conditions. Oh that 10c increase in min wage really puts bread on the table.
@Jack Cassady: think the poor are better treated in other developed countries??
@Tweety McTweeter:Either way the same sex marriage referendum was driven by the Labour Party and Eamonn Gilmore in particular. I can’t see how Kenny, a professed social conservative can claim any credit for the initiative.
@Tweety McTweeter: or that FG followed the FF plan (they in fairness had already carried out the heavy lifting) and the Troika plan. Things got dark and murky after the Troika left.
@Jack Cassady: Labour broke EVERY economic promise. Remember the tesco ad? Eamon Gilmore & Pat Rabbitte are the two biggest champagne socialists ever on their early massive multiple pensions. They quit politics as they knew Labour were toast in election 2016 but featured their nest & retirement payments while in office. Remember Gilmores wife made killing from selling inherited land to state for a school & also Gilmore gave her plush hundreds of thousands of euros paid job while Tanaiste. These two were all anti bin water & home taxes in 2011(they broke promises in 3 yrs) & had billions to waste on Irish Water while thousands become homeless & medical cards were taken off the most ill children. They stood over hospital waiting lists growing by thousands a month too. Some socialists
@James Gorman: “think the poor are better treated in other developed countries??”Yes. In the nordics, they are guaranteed affordable housing, free world class healthcare and free third level education, not to mention free childcare to get them back on their feet and into the workforce.Let me know if there’s anything else you need to be enlightened on.
@Tweety McTweeter: Said “goodbye” to the troika? What does that mean? Nothing. We’re still paying the ransom for the international banking swindle which FG were delighted to offer up with our taxes. F*ked is too nice a term for it. Idiots vote and mostly the smart have to pay.
@Tweety McTweeterAnd an impressive  reduction in pay rates for workers.
easily our greatest ever leader, a true hero to all irish people. the usual begrudgers are livid. the shinnerbots are just going to have to suck it up LOL
@The Risen: how are the poor treated in northern ireland under your beloved SF/IRA. highest child poverty in europe in west belfast all thanks to SF/IRA
@Tweety McTweeter: They’re just figures, unfortunately
@The Risen: you having a laugh? Think you can go on dole over there for life or refuse to pay water, sewage or bin charges?Compare like with like will you and enlighten youself before you offer to enlighten others from a keyboard warrior profile.
@booby sandwiches: Dumbo of the thousand names, you should have posted under your Endathegreat nom de plume, thats alias to you Dumbo.Did your mammy give you her phone to play with again after she changed your nappy.
@Just Me: anything to contribute shinnerbot? LOL
@The Risen: Your fondness for the word ‘free’ is everything that’s wrong with this country right now.
@Tweety McTweeter: that extra 10c on min wage certainly does put bread on the table. Say, for example, you have someone on min wage working 40 hours a week. That’s 4euro extra PER WEEK. That’s 208euro extra in his pocket every year. I buy a loaf in the corner shop for 2euro, that’s 104 loafs of bread. That’s a lot of bread
Don’t fool yourself.  Someone is paying.
@The Risen: some of that may be the case but it’s all dependent on a successful economy. The world doesn’t owe, you, I or the Irish state a living.
@The Risen: you mean the nordic countries who pay a level of tax that would cause a revolution in this country if Introduced?  We want top class services in this country but we don’t want to pay for them. Look what happened with water.
@Jimmyjoe Wallace: dont baffle the shinnerbot with facts they dont like that it hurts their little brains :D
@Obi: A 214% increase in child homelessness is what’s wrong with the country. It’s even worse reading multiple account FG fraperoom shills lauding Kenny for such an acheivement.
@Tweety McTweeter: Factor in the mass emigration, low wage, zero hour Contracts, typical fg work profile
@Dave Doyle: 326% increase in child poverty in northern ireland under SF/IRA, the multiple account holding shinnerbots are desperate to cover up such facts
@booby sandwiches: Hi booby. Just to let you know I’m sitting here with a pint in front of me having a good chuckle at the thoughts of you wasting your Saturday night on your little SF/IRA/shinnerbot obsession.Please continueCHEERS!
@James Gorman: they are actually. Lower grade jobs pay much higher wages in Holland and Germany the 2 most successful economies in the Eu. Inequality is much less there than in Ireland.
@The Risen: Norway has oil-enough said-nationalized under statoil. Sweden has the metals industry….and was not involved in ww2 after they made a deal with Adolf Hitler to provide steel for German War Machine.
@The Risen:The nordics are the exception rather than the rule.Let me know if there’s anything else you need to be enlightened on.
FG history, but proper Irish history will show what he really was, a mere puppet to his European masters and the enabler of tax avoidance for the rich and corporate sections of society.
@Just Me:Kenny was a political construct.Between Brussels dictating economic policy and a coterie of highly paid consultants orchestrating the spin I doubt we’ll ever get a glimpse into the mind of the real Enda Kenny.The question of whether there was ever anything worthwhile there will be left hanging in the air for all eternity.Strikes me as a guy who got lucky twice, first through inheriting his father’s seat then through Fine Gael gaining electoral victory by default.If I was to write his epitaph it would be:‘I did what I was told’
@Just Me: he will get a standing ovation at the game tomorrow, fully deserved for the man who saved ireland :)
@booby sandwiches: He gave away and sold any assets Ireland had, to feather the nest’s and fill the trough with gravy for his rich friends.And all supported by idiots such as yourself.
@Just Me: you have yourself all worked up shinnerbot. what did he give away exactly? what did he sell exactly? what rich friends did he help and what proof do you have?spoofer much shinnerbot? PMSL
@booby sandwiches: I’d say there’s a stronger chances of him getting booed, that’s if they even bother to notice him!
@Adrian: it would be hard to miss our greatest ever citizen. a true hero  and patriot :)
@booby sandwiches: i doubt that the man who destroyed Irish society will get anything but the abuse he deserves.
@Dave Doyle: bertie has had plenty of abuse, mostly deserved, on that we agree. thankfully enda came along and save the country, we are truly blessed to have such a fantastic leader and patriot. never has someone deserved their pension pot more than enda. i shall send him a bottle of exquisite champagne as a thank you.
@booby sandwiches: deluded fool if you think that, guess you must be a paid FG troll,
@booby sandwiches: troll
@booby sandwiches: man who said yes Angela all the way . He didn’t Save us we saved ourselves we paid high price high austerity measures sold our country to vultures which in turn has created massive crisis in rental sector. Useless spineless gutless man
Personally ,,,, he had it in his grasp to be one of the best leaders,,, the country was in  a state after FF ,, it was there to be fixed ,,, but he bowed to Europe and the Richest in the land ,,,,,
@Elaine Fitzpatrick: What would you have done?
@Soccer T’s: well considering I met the man I would have first done what we personally asked him to do,,,,, what’s more I voted FG and feel extremely let down ,,
@Elaine Fitzpatrick: Perfectly put Elaine
@Elaine Fitzpatrick:So what exactly did you ask him to do?
Like him or not, its a job we can all criticise and say do this, he did it fair PLAY you can’t leave earth unjudged .
Those waiting years in pain for an operation beg to differ as to the thousands homeless & counting.
@abcyz: the 94% of people with jobs would beg to differ too I suppose yes?
@Negan: Those paying our staggering debt and the hordes who had to emigrate would ask you to get real I suppose, Yes?
@vNblxOSQ: the 79,000 immigrants to Ireland last year, who believe that the Irish economy is good enough to move here would beg to differ I suppose yes?
@Conor O’Loughlin: he is and has always been completely out of touch with the Irish people. How can you say fair play to him? He’s an embarrassment. And now we pay his pension for 20 odd years. The people lose again… but hey, lets elect another tosser with no connection to the issues, like we always do.
@vNblxOSQ:Who created the debt?
Nah … one of the most mediocre leaders we’ve ever had. The journal reporters now speaking for FG?
@RG Law: oh yeah cos any random politician would be able to do the extraordinary work that Enda did. Sure bring in oul Luke Ming as taoisheach for the craic sure
@RG Law: Not logical that the entire front bench of FG (except f harris) went “all out” for Varadkar” . why?
History will state he served himself and his party well.His legacy is a shameful one.
@Paul Mc: His lump sum & pension is waiting for his greedy self after hogging on to pass longest days a FG member was taoiseach
@Paul Mc: he is the greatest ever irish person, the man who saved ireland
@booby sandwiches: Who the F let you out of the mental home .Oh! I get it. Every time there is an Enda article or an opportunity to slag SF, They give you a phone to play with, Halfwit.
@Just Me: you have yourself all worked up shinnerbot it is rather amusing
@booby sandwiches: troll, dont feed the toll
@Paul Mc: Same as every other party leader. Has there been a politician of note in this country who didn’t serve themselves first, their party second and the country third?
In 50 years time every YouTube video will document this man cowardly attempt at being a leader. From running over female journalists to non handshakes with Obama. History will be cold in its judgement of FG’s first re-elected leader who could not even face Vincent Browne once.His political reform stopped at having more women like Humphries, Fitzgerald at the cabinet table. same spoofers just a different sex (ish)Universal health care, O’reilly brainchild since 2009 which flopped while all involved will never be held to account.Independent planning enquiry, Phil Hogan stopped this immediately FG entered government with labour. opting for dept of environment whitewash instead. Kenny protected FG councillors who took bribes from developers to rezone land. these FG councillors now pick our new leader and the same developers are given state contracts because the know how “construction inflation” works and with foreign bank account to deposit the bag of sterling.He was at best a default Taoiseach who ran away for much of his time in office. At worst he kept cronyism at the heart of Irish politics. he mislead the dail on numerous occasions and never answered a direct question.Maybe his legacy will be he managed to leave office with more pensions then brain cells. hopefully his like will never be seen again.
@leartius: his place as our greatest ever leader is secure, the begrudgers are just going to have to suck it up
@booby sandwiches: troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll troll
The string puppet controlled by his European masters. A spineless inept coward who always popped up at any minor success but was nowhere to be seen for all his many shortcomings. Himself and Noonan, the worst finance minister the state has ever seen and most likely ever will, should be remembered as nothing but desperately poor leaders way out of their depth who fell into their roles out of extenuating circumstances when the country was in turmoil. They were fortunate to be answering to and held on a leash by their bosses in Brussels so as not to have been exposed for what they really are yet they sail off into the sunset as some kind of heroes and saviours of the state….what a country.
@Niall O D: have a look over at Greece where they elected a hard left party and you will see they just signed their latest bail out this week.Easy criticise. The left whingers would have done no differently in this country. When we lost our sovreignty we lost our ability to call the shots.If you really believe differently then say exactly who you wanted at the helm and what they would have done differently.
@James Gorman: Silly comment. It was decades of hopping from one right wing government to another, both of whom facilitated wide scale tax avoidance (sound famiiar?), that wrecked greeces economy. Syriza were responsible  for the largest and most severe economic adjustment in modern history to try bring greeces finances back to sustainability.
@The Risen: you are proving my point.Syriza did exact opposite of what they said they would do if they got into govt. Just don’t get it do you??
@James Gorman: Revisionism doesn’t work when the events are less than a decade old james.
@The Risen: you are very livid about this shinnerbot, it is rather amusing watching the shinners trying to rewrite the present also :D
@The Risen: Syriza held a referendum to use it as a prop to sign off on austerity because they hadn’t even the guts to stand by their pledges to ‘take on Europe’ and resist austerity. Then when the ‘won’ the referendum they still didn’t stand by their pledges and ignored the referendum result. Unbelievable but great ginea pig which lays bare the type of pausity of the left economic policies.
@booby sandwiches: Dumbo of the thousand names go get your nappy changed you smell again and leave the conversation to the grownups.
@Just Me: you have yourself all worked up shinnerbot. the reality not living up to your agenda. enda will be remembered as our greatest ever leader and you and your ilk can do nothing about it. its best to just laugh at you idiots
@booby sandwiches:Give us a break from your shinnerbot rants….your sounding like a fool
@Niall O D: not a single fact here. All just opinion. Anybody can do that. So, Niall O D, unless you have some decent arguments for us, backed up with decent facts, just go home and play with your toes! Good Boy!
@The Risen:The revisionism is in praising Syriza for imposing austerity, when the reality is that it was the last thing they wanted until they got into power, had to take a reality pill, and found that (rightly or wrongly) austerity was the only option available to them.The hypocrisy is in praising Syriza for imposing austerity whilst simultaneously criticising Enda Kenny for imposing austerity.
In, what 40yrs sitting in Dail Eireann, what did he actually do. Nothing for most of those years. As Teashop, he kicked more cans,told more lies, lived in a fantasy world of his own making. Like Noonan he has no regard for ordinary people. Knows nothing and cares even less about the life they live. He has presided over the most corrupt two governments the country has ever seen. And given FF’s record that’s quite an achievement.It all depends on who’s writing the history, realists, or fantasists.
@Dave Doyle: its fun to listen to the shinnerbots trying to rewrite the present :D
@booby sandwiches: It’s more fun reading the comments from  fascists like yourself, who would rather burn money, as you said, before you seen a cent of it going to the needy.
@Dave Doyle: genuine needs no problem, useless scroungers i would gladly let starve off :)
@booby sandwiches: Pure Hitlerite fascism, but you lack the intelligence to understand it.
@Dave Doyle: you shinners know all about hitler and the nazis, SF fought side by side with the nazis its a well documented fact
Like it or loathe it Christina, kenny won’t be remembered for achieving anything. History will say ireland struggled for over a decade after this last recession with Kenny having little effect on social issues like record homelessness. Maybe their bloated state economics figures were posted to make things rosy for the history books but they’ll have leprechaun economics associated with them.
I don’t think the academics will be studying kenny-omics or noonan-omics. At least bertie will have his northern ireland peace process. There’s nothing to remember kenny for!
Hell, I don’t even think he deserves the dignity of that “official” type photo you have at the start of this article! It’s totally phoney, makes a mockery of the job.
He made a mockery of the job of taoiseach with his constant controversarys and cover ups Remember his farsical hilarious defence in the dail during the whistle blower controversary.
@Adrian: talking to yourself is a sign…. :D
Oh I’m sure the history books of many a european country will be kind to merkels man on the west of the continent.For many a generation, however, enda kenny will be remembered as the man who doubled child poverty and stood by as vulture funds snapped up propertties for buttons while homelessness grew to record levels.
@The Risen: how are SF doing on child poverty and homelessness in northern ireland?  how many years in government and done nothing about it, have they any shame at all?
Would somebody like to PM ‘booby’ a box of crayons?
@The Risen: I would say he will be compared to that other enforcer of the Great Famine, Trevelayan, such was his legacy of child poverty and the homeless .
@The Risen: no comment on child poverty in the north and homelessness, do you not care what hardship SF are imposing on those people in the north? does your concern for homelessness and child poverty stop at the border shinnerbot? have you any morals at all?
Depends on who is writing the history or how the austerity which was imposed by him impacted your life or those of your family.
Enda’s & Labour’s budgets were extremely regressive. Budget 2012-10e a week cut for the most ill & poorest next to homeless citizens(many have become homeless since then while he was taoiseach with no hope). 2e a week for a whole household(could be 2 or more weathly adults in the house & budget 2012 only took 2e off them), through the household charge while those who owned nothing had 10e worth of cuts.Leo even said “have a holiday” after budget 2012 & Labour continued to allow Enda to attack the poorest for the next 4 years. Enda & Labour showed no compassion for the disabled OAPS 99.7% genuinely unemployed & lone parents.Their legacy is highest homeless & hospital waiting lists but bondholders, Apple &every millionaire & of course billionaires(DOB especially)& vulture funds got billions
@abcyz: people always talk about budgets being regressive, and “targeting the poorest” but they ignore the fact that the starting position pre crash was not sustainable; some people took heavy cuts to their SW; but also a lot of working people lost businesses, houses and were forced to emigrate. Those figures are not in the budget.
I remember Enda Kenny. He was an agent of the ECB and the European Commission who told Europe that the Irish people deserved to be punished for partying too much.
@Tony Daly: Remind you of anyone? Trevelynn of the Great Famine, who said the famine was gods punishment on the Irish people.
@Just Me: poor ould terrorist mcguinness never got such plaudits as enda, that must really hurt you and your ilk :D
@booby sandwiches: Don’t forget the next time you’re banned, you can come back with a new name that describes you,  Dumbo.
@booby sandwiches: It think it’s about time to employ the mute button on you. And i suggest a few others employ it as well.Go away to the corner with your dunces hat on.
@Dave Doyle: if you have lost the debate then go ahead and hit that button and admit defeat. loser do what losers do :D
Yeah! and so will the state coffers… how much is that pension worth…?
Enda Kenny legacy of homeless
Family’s will pass on to their children and theirs what enda,fg,and labour did to the Irish people.the truth.
History can be just a paid PR piece, these comments however are not.Here you see the truth.
@Scundered: Like the news…
@Scundered: Not One Red Cent to the banks. Leo Varadkar 2011:https://youtu.be/WQrhBIuSCmM
Marriage referendum,apologising to women of magdalene laundries,Vatican speech and Tuam babies were all easy political wins for him whereby anything else he said or done would not be tolerated in the society we live in today.Navigating Ireland through the bailout??All I seen FG and Labour do was implement what FF had in place which was dictated by the Troika/IMF.I will say getting the ball moving on abortion regardless of how slow it is,is a positive move as it is not an easy political win.
@Terry Cunningham: kind of agree terry, heartfelt speechifying about magdalenes and tuam babies but requiring no difficult decisions or actions, or policy competence is too easily overpraised, see also st Patrick’s immigration speech. All the same, I don’t think you can say they ‘just’ implemented fianna fail policies; implementation is everything.
He’s definitely it the worst anyway
He did the state some service….Some know it….That is all….
@John003: Was that not the German government when they did 8 budgets for us? And we took some of the German debt as well?
Guys, wake up! I wish Spain had Ireland’s unemployment rate or economic growth. I wish  my Spanish stupid politicians had had Ireland’s success in attracting multinationals, securing jobs and promoting Spain outside of some battled, dictatorial South America countries.Yes there is a serious homeless crisis here, and abortion laws are not aligned with what Irish citizens want, and yes the rent market is insane, and the health system a joke but hell, I much rather be here than in Spain with all its suffocating sunshine and flashy cafes. Why? Because on the overall Ireland offers better job prospects, decent pay and safer conditions for women in the workplace!I can’t even vote on your elections but if you ask me Enda hasn’t done a bad job handling your country!
@Angeles: well said
Truly one of the worst of them all, smug arrogant, corrupt with snout firmly in the trough jobs for the boys who follow the gravy train
@Jonny: any specifics re. the corruption jonny? Or is anyone you dislike/disagree with now corrupt? In fact, I don’t think I’ve ever heard any credible questions about enda’s ethics and you can’t say that about all our tds.
how should enda be honored, i think a massive statue on grafton street and rename it to enda kenny street would suffice for the man who has given so much to ireland
@booby sandwiches: How about naming a s#it house in Castlebar, the Enda Kenny House. and you could have the job of wiping the as#ses.
Wasn’t a big fan of FG or of Enda, I’m still not.  However, my respect for Enda increased dramatically when he slapped down trump in Washington DC in front of him and his cronies.  He acted like a true leader that day.
@Tony Davidson: Good point ! His immigration speech went viral and was viewed 30 million times ………. Not bad going !!
Wold easily top any poll of the most hated man in Ireland.
Yes employment rates are down but amazingly so is tax revenue!The reason is because Fine Gael have created a cheap labour pool for their wealthy friends to make massive profits off their backs.The cheap labour market that Fine Gael and Labour created is a disgrace!!
@Eoghan O’Murchú:Tax revenue isn’t down
* unless you’re talking about down on the peak years of the celtic tiger.http://databank.finance.gov.ie/FinDataBank.aspx?rep=TaxYrTrend
The leader of a country that never engaged in a debate within the realms of the media or outside of the Dail.History will be short of quotes that weren’t scripted or approved by special advisors..
In that case then history’s an arse!
@Terry: I disagree Les Behan.We are now the fastest growing economy in Europe.Things are still very difficult but he has brought the country a long way.Let’s see how good Leo is.There is more to being Taoiseach than going to electric picnic and wearing coloured wrist bands.By the way.Why the new identity?
@Tom Burke: “We are now the fastest growing economy in Europe.”As pointed out by David McWilliams, the term ‘fastest growing economy in europe’ is meaningless when it’s ireland as we are an anglo/american economy bolted on to the euro. Ignoring the fact that the bar is set so low.
@The Risen: David Mc Williams has carved out a nice career, writing articles and books whilst never having to deal with the issues.Make him Minister for Finance and he would struggle like everybody else.So how well is the Greek economy doing after telling the Germans to FO?Remind me please.
@Tom Burke: Carving out a career without dealing with the issues? How apt you use that phrase in an article about enda kenny, who has been doing that in the daiil for the last 42 years.
@Tom Burke: Enda kicked so many cans down the street while implementing Fianna Fail policies of “recovery”. Just look at the mess he’s leaving behind. One of most corrupt countries in Europe, which got worse under his watch when he promised to introduce “new politics” to change that culture perfected by Fianna Fail.  Fine Gael under Enda’s leadership in government out did Fianna Fail in being Fianna Fail.I was banned for no reason, no explanation.
@The Risen: i suppose the unemployment figures are meaningless to, as is the tax take. hows the doom and glooom propaganda going for SF/IRA PMSL
@Terry: you shouldn’t be banned.We don’t agree on too much but I respect free speech. Shame on the journo.Regarding corrupt Ireland, I agree.But don’t you think we put people on pedestals?It seems you can be one of the wealthiest men in the country, employ thousands on bogus zero hour contracts, yet the nation worship you and media wont say a bad word.We need to rethink who our heroes are.
@Tom Burke: For all the good it did as you can see. A minor inconvenience nothing more!
i think he should be immortalized on our 2 euro coin, nothing less than he deserves
Enda and fg was so great he had to depend on their so called sworn enemy to get them back in government. That shows you what the people really think of him. If people really want to see what his legacy is then walk through the streets of any medium sized town in this country. Take note of all the homeless people & the families sleeping in cars. Once you have that done go to a hospital and have a look at the lines of sick people waiting on trollies. This is the reality of modern ireland under fg who were led by Enda. Of course parts of Ireland are recovering but it is mainly Dublin and it is sucking the life out of the rest of the country and now Dublin is at bursting point.The guy and his party promised new politics, one of many many lies they told the people.
Because it is people like him who write the history here…
Just don’t mention Dennis O’Brien and Moriarty, the lies he told about the whistle-blower the fact that he’s so inept he has took to wearing an earpiece during Dail questions.
He’ll be remembered fondly for his remarkable stories, The man with the  two pints, The army guarding the ATM’s, Saudi womens rights, The woman with money after the budget,Tthe emperors new clothes, Oh! sorry, that last one was Hans Christian Anderson, I mix Enda and Hans up so regularly. However Enda has told stories ranging from Vladimir Lenin’s visit here for Collins to imaginary conversation with Katherine Zappone, a magnificent imagination is being lost. Though I’d say he’s not averse to spinning one of his tales over a few pints or over the dinner table. Ah! they countries loss is some other eejit’s   gain.
I said it a few times here over the years that senior civil servants and political pensions need a reality check. They should have been capped at about 70k when the IMF was in, it didn’t happen. A 70k pension is still far more than most of us will ever earn a year working.
Yea, but do you have a compatible amount of responsibilities, working hours and stress in your job?Whether you agree with certain politicians or not, the Taoiseachs job is comparable to the CEO of a very large company. I don’t think the current salary and benefits for the Taoiseach are out of the way for someone with that responsibility. If you pay someone in power poorly, it only increases the risk of corruption
@Reg: The most intelligent comment you have ever posted reg I think.
@Tweety McTweeter: Yes the job is difficult and for that you receive a salary. A pension is for when you’re sitting at home weeding the garden. Should it be about 80% of his current salary?
@Derek Poutch: I’ve said lots of sensible things here Derek. Just because you may not agree does not make them any less sensible!
@Tweety McTweeter: They are all absolutely corrupt to the core anyway, its supposed to be a vocation, pay them 40k a year. If they want rk make 200+k they can just hit up Do Boy and have him award them a no-show position on one of his boards, a-la Biffo the pisshead
@Tweety McTweeter: So we bribe them so they won’t take bribes?? Great idea.. How about we hire people who put their country first and not themselves??
@Tweety McTweeter: I’m in agreement they should be well paid to stop corruption. But on the other is the threat of corruption is valid reason to “over pay” our politicians!!
@Tweety McTweeter:I agree that it’s the same as a CEO but surely if the performance of a top CEO was on par with enda he would have been sacked years back with no pension. As usual politicians get voted in make a mess and leave with a wad of money..
@Liam O’Reilly: Dunno about you but I’d rather attract the very best, driven, dedicated members of society rather than just someone who’s willing to accept 40k a year to be the subject of abuse and vitirol day in day.Not a fan of Kenny in the slightest – he’s weak and aloof – but outrage about money every time a politician retires is tiresome.
@Jimmy Ireland: the real problem I have is that this is an unlimited liability on current expenditure for years to come. I would much prefer if they gave politicians a significant salary increase, as that will be accounted for during their “productive” years, rather than a legacy debt for a load of wealthy pensioned politicians; aswell as other senior civil servants. We dont know what the future will bring, how can we be sure we can fund all these liabilities. It just seems like basic maths to me, but maybe I don’t get it.
@Jimmy Ireland: Well we seem to have failed in attracting the very best with what we pay politicians already……
@Reg:He is getting 3 different pension packages, TD pension, Taoiseach pension plus Ministerial pension for his time as junior minister in 80/90s and a lump sum for each…Still not massive.Bertie and Brian Cowen got bigger pensions!
@Tweety McTweeter: what responsibility. He had people tell him and lead him evrywhere. He was like a puppet.
@Tweety McTweeter: not much working hours or stress in retirement..
@Jimmy Ireland:So you think that someone who is paid 40 k a year is not driven. So you equate money rather than the person with the job???? That ridiculous.
@Reg: Agreed.
@Tweety McTweeter: but would you put kenny in charge of a very large company. I don’t see many large private companies rushing out looking for teachers with their teaching skills to run their companies.
@Rob Cahill: Look at Singapore and how they pay politicians and the problem with corruption they don’t have  and the quality of politicians they get. Then I would ask you to see what you think when you see how well the economy does there.
@Jimmy Ireland: tiresome? So we just give up and let them have whatever they like?
@Tweety McTweeter: And name one company that any of them wouldn’t  bankrupt if they were made a CEO of? They are made directors of companies not because of their prowess but as a thank you for corrupt practices and access to their contacts as Biffo says going forward.Also does that money include his teachers pension which he has refused to give up?
@Tweety McTweeter: He got paid too much already, for the job he was doing and a pension is paid when you retire from work. Justify paying that money, for taking it easy at home and it’s for life for 6 years work.
its not half enough considering all he has done for ireland
@Tweety McTweeter:  You do know that a CEO at a large company would be out on his ear if he displayed the type of incompetence as Kenny has.
@Reg: Tax free lump sums  and golden pensions for the economy wreckers.  Aherne was only 59 years old, Cowen 50, got ? tax free lump sums + a pension of 150,000 Euro pa.We have John Bruton, and Liam Cosgrave  and now Kenny on the golden pension gravy train, that will make 5 ex Taoiseach on the state payroll. Is there any other country on the planet that have 5 ex Prime ministers on pension’s? i doubt it.  This so called people’s Republic has a 205,000000,000, debt costing 8,000000,000 pa in interest, a sixth of all taxes collected by Revenue. All of this debt was socialized onto the back’s of the citizen’s by the spineless establishment political classes.  64 Billion of this debt was caused by greedy Banker’s, and the Galway tent developer classes,  Unsustainable State apparatus salaries, pension’s and the over paid and allowanced political classes as above and their underling’s, also was a huge contributing factor. The whole cost base from 2002 to the crash in 2007/8 was let out of control by the incompetent some corrupt cute hoor establishment political classes.  The citizens of this country are paying a high price for electing the same old useless lifers election after election to represent their interests in Dail Eireann when the evidence show’s their main interest’s are themselves families, friend’s, cronies, and fellow cute hoors.  When we ever learn after all the damage the establishment politico’s have done most of the citizen’s still decide to put them back to do more damage, and continue on with the Status Quo.
@Tweety McTweeter: so we pay politicians big salaries so they won’t be corrupt,well it’s not working
@Celtic_Horizon: The more they get the more they want, it is called GREED.
@Tweety McTweeter: paying people in this country more makes them more corrupt, our politicians are a classic example.
@Tweety McTweeter: if we keep this with enda, although it applies to every taoiseach in my memory, not one of them would have been capable of managing a chip shop, never mind being CEO of a large company.Most got there as part of a political dynasty or as a result of the school they attended.
@Tweety McTweeter:  we have one of the most corrupt political set ups in europe and we pay our politicians far more than they are worth ! kenny will also get a substantial pension and payout from his teaching ‘job’  – one he hasnt been in for over 40 yrs yet still gets full pension rights! how the hell is that fair ? someone else has done that job for him over the last 42 years yet HE gets to keep the pension from it !! irish politics is over run with cronyism and nepotism and the likes of kenny who take over the seats of their fathers without being properly elected by the people . time the rules were changed – if a td or minister steps down or dies there should be a bye election – not just allow his son ,daughter or dog to take over  the position . irish politics is  corrupt to its rotten stinking core !!
What nonsense ..He was a totally inept leader , no accountability , false promises , not a leadership bone in his body ..It’s immoral really to hand him just a rich reward ..@Tweety McTweeter:
@Tweety McTweeter:  Examine the British Prime Minister’s salary and pension – It is no where near the Irish Taoiseach’s.  The political elite in Ireland live in a world of their own. Servants of the people ? I do not think so !
@Tweety McTweeter: hahaha u are  winding us up , ? arnt u ?
Child poverty doubled on his watch, and homelessness and trolley numbers hit record highs. We also had a dodgy IOU between the central bank and the exchequer converted into 40 years worth of debt our grandkids will still be paying back.So, I think its fair to say he does not deserve that size pension, and also the poll is the worst clickbait I’ve come across in a long time.
@The Risen: well just as a counterpoint, all of those things are a direct result of the major economic crash that he did inherit. Not giving him a pass for everything, but your basic premise is BS.
@Malvolio32: incorrect, they are a result of actions taken after the crash
@The Risen: and whats that got to do with his pension, 15 years ago you wouldnt have bat a eye about it, your just pointing out how  bad the governments policies are not, these pensions have been place for years dealing with the homless isnt going to stop his pension
@Malvolio32: No No No stop the lies. He CONTINUED everything Fianna Fail started and blamed Fianna Fail for it. Stop lying your not talking to fools. He made the choices fully aware and he targeted the most vulnerable and protected the super rich. Why do you think they love him in Brussels. He save all their losses.
@Les Boyd: It would save millions which could be put back into the state. Basic maths.
@The Risen: so is SF responsible for all homelessness and child poverty in northern ireland or does your double standards stop at the border?
@The Risen: didnt the shinners take pensions for MP jobs that they never even showed up for? have the shinners any morals at all?
@The Risen: No child poverty has not doubled on his watch. The figures only go to 2015 and the numbers suffering from deprivation have edged up from 6.2% in 2010 to 8.7% they will be a lot lower now as the chances of poverty are 22% if unemployed and 2% if employed, the number of unemployed has fallen from 10% in 2015 to 6.7% today.Creating jobs is the only route out of poverty.
@Cathal Mac Einri:
@Paul Meade: Ah, here, now, Paul, don’t be bringing your auld facts to this discussion.Can’t you see I am in a state of permanent juvenile indignation and outrage. I’ll present whatever alternative facts I like in my unflinching support of Sinn Fein.Good lad.
@Les Boyd: the problem with these pensions, Edna’s for example is you are rewarding incompetence and corruption.
@Paul Meade. true bringing in a minimum wage will feed, clothe, heat, pay for education, tax and insure a car, pay a t.v license, pay household charge, pay water charge.Likewise a rrw hours a day or few days a week. An extra tenner while doing a course will have these families cracking open the champers.
@The Risen:Mass Immigration continued unchecked also.
How could getting about € 2700 per week not be excessive…. Seriously
Of course Enda’s pension is excessive, just like all senior public servants, but when one considers what Ahern, Cowen and the other ministers in charge while the economy collapsed are on, I don’t begrudge him one cent of it. Despite all the criticism of him Ireland has largely prospered under Kenny’s care when it could have nose dived. Maybe one day, but it has never happened to my knowledge, some of these over paid politicians on several pensions might voluntarily hand back a third or so of it as a gesture to the Irish public who suffered the cuts caused by their bad performance while in office.
@winston smith: ilinformed fantasist, homelessness figures havs tripled since 2011, evictions are out of control, people who are working can’t afford rent so are sleeping on the floor of Merchant’s Quay, I know because I visited there so do your research.
@winston smith: educate your self and join  this group on fb FIGHT THE WATER TAX SCAM  ;-)
Doubt it is means tested like the old age pension. If he is earning other money from public speaking it should be.
@SteveW: Excellent point.
@SteveW: If you pay towards the old age pension it isn’t means tested. If you haven’t then it is means tested. Nothing wrong with that.
@Reg: did he ‘pay ‘ towards his pension then reg? or did we the tax payer pay it on his behalf -? i thought these gold plated pensions were one of the ‘perks’ of the job  and that they were paid for from the public purse not the td’s own pockets !
@SteveW:Contributory pension is not means tested. Get facts right.
Imagine a job where for 30 odd years you get to sit in the background and have little input to the work at hand.You get the job because your Father had the job previously.You give up your teaching job and put that job on hold, but remember you have started the pension trail already!You know that if the new job does not want you anymore you are safe in the knowledge that you can just go back to your teaching job and take up where you left off.Now if you need extra time off on this new job then you just vote for it with the other workers and it arrives, no justification to anyone, it just arrives as if by magic.Similarly if you need a pay rise at any time then again you just vote for it and it arrives,make sure of course that you get lots of money because it makes the job look important.If anyone objects you can just say ‘I’m worth it’ and everyone accepts it.You don’t actually need to turn up at the designated job site all the time but if you do then you get extra money.If you have to get to the site to work you have a car that is either driven for you or you get to choose how much expenses on top of your pay that you can claim.Don’t worry if your claims are a little askew, just submit them on time and they will be paid.You can even decide on a circuitous route to arrive at the job and claim for that, or if you have friends in an other distant country, hey just give them a call and stay on for hours.Don’t worry about paying for anything like that along the way.OK if someone asks you to pay you just pay up but hey don’t worry, you wont lose your job or anything serious like that and you can probably claim it as a tax expense.And if you choose to use your house for ‘working at home’ then you can claim more money. And roof tax or anything like that, Nah, that’s not for you, after all aren’t you working from home.If you get peckish or would like a few beers at any time, even when you are supposed to be working then just go to the subsided Bar and Restaurant and enjoy.If there is anything to pay then just get them to put it on the tab.Just make sure that if there is any important work coming up that might need overtime then go for a few drinks first.If you need to go anywhere just call up the private jet that is waiting and get on board.Don’t worry about the expense.Hey – you might even get promoted – you could become the leader of your own work gang.Wow – more money is coming your way.Don’t worry about the work aspect, work advisors will tell you what to do and when to do it – heck they will even tell you what to say and when to say it – just think of the extra money you are getting.Now there is even more travel involved in being the leader of this work gang but again it’s all for free.Then it’s time to retire – wow, you are so young – but hey don’t forget the pensions !Just count your pensions, yes multiple pensions – now you could hardly survive on just one pension could you.Oh yeah before you leave this job here is a bonus for you(It’s more than other job workers get even from richer countries but heck so what, you’re worth it…)But hey you don’t get to leave just yet, just take some time off to count your pensions and bonuses because you get to go to the back of the house again until the next big shuffle.
@eastsmer #IRExit: comment of day in my opinion
@eastsmer #IRExit: I can imagine actually. Welcome to world politics. I can’t think of any government off hand that puts its people first
Leech got fatter :(What’s new ?
@Willy Malone: you ever worked in the same job for 42 years ? Didn’t think so,so what would you know !
Might aswell of won the Lotto..
@The Viking: he does every month
If he was getting one euro it would still be excessive
@David Byrne:How do you make that out. He has paid into a pension for 40 years
@Nick Allen: over paid. He paid nothing that wasn’t given him. Ye will condemn people paying back welfare and ruthlessly demand they be slaughtered but a parasite gets justified by the likes of you. Sick people.
@Nointerest Here: Paying back social welfare?
@Nick Allen: wrong we have paid into his pension for 42 years
@Nick Allen: he paid nothing he has been living off the hardworking Irish taxpayer and will do until his death.
@Nick Allen: because he’s NOT worth it very simple
@Nick Allen: i dont think he did ACTUALLY ‘pay over 40 years’  dont senior politicians and public service get their pension contribution paid by the tax payer ? so not ACTUALLY his money to begin with !
What ever about the annual payment what’s the lump sum about ??? As Taoiseach I suppose the annual sum is appropriate . Although they all seem to get ridiculous pensions for four years work.
@Catherine Sims: He’s been a TD for 40 odd years and a govenment minister aswell so it’s not just for being Taoiseach for the last six years. Still excessive in my opinion.
@Reg: well fair enough but what’s the lump sum about though Reg do you know ? Surely an annual amount of that much is enough.
@Catherine Sims: Lump sums are a normal part of private and public pensions. You can extract a certain amount from your retirement fund upon retirement, tax free. Right now it’s 200K, and you can take a further 500K tax free.http://www.pensionsauthority.ie/en/LifeCycle/Tax/Tax_on_lump_sums_at_retirement/As such, there’s a tax benefit for the private sector in having this ability (they would be taxed on a purchased annuity at normal rates, subject to normal thresholds and tax credits. This tax benefit needs to be fairly distributed to the public sector too, so there’s an agreement to give some of their accrued pension benefits as a tax free lump sum.Most people plan to use this lump sum facility at retirement.That’s not to say the annual pension isn’t excessive – it will be in this case. But the lump sum is a pretty ordinary amount for someone earning over, say, 70k, to extract upon retirement, from their fund.
@Rónán O’Suilleabháin: Oops, that should read amounts between 200-500K at 20% tax
Most ridiculous poll ever .
@Darren Moore: how so?
@Russell Dalton: the answer to your question is in taking a look at the huge amount thumbs up it got compared to yours, which at the the time of this post was a big fat ZERO
@Russell Dalton: because it should have been a 100% yes ffs!
How is this even an issue – or a poll – it’s click bait – people who set the rules and friendly with those who enforce the pension legislation having large pensionsSeriously??????
@The Red Devil: Nail on the head.
@The Red Devil: Who or what criteria is used to set their entitlement.
My pension is similar. What’s the deal. That’s his business.
@Mark Murphy: WoW really. Aren’t you wonderful?
@Mark Murphy: not his business when the state has to pay this. I have worked in PS for 30 years. My pension, after OAP deduction will be €5k, after contributing for 40 years.
@Mark Murphy: What do you do?
@Stephen Cumbers:  If you worked in the PS for 40 years and are only getting an annual pension of 5k then there’s seriously something wrong or you haven’t been working full time for those 40 years
@eimear irwin:By the sounds of it – lies in bed rolling in €50 notes
@AnnieBelle: at a guess I’d say Stephen was PRSI exempt, so wasnt paying towards the state pension, so really what he’s getting back is the combined pension of both. Maybe he can clarify.
@Malvolio32:Indeed, my understanding is that there’s a class of PRSI for public sector workers where employer’s PRSI (the main component) is not paid. As such, they don’t get a contributory OAP, rather the total pension (which in this case happens to be 5k more than contributory OAP) is being provided based on his salary history.
I don’t believe so. PS classes (pre 95 ees I think) are B C D H from memory and employer pays on all. Only circumstances I can think of are that wage is beneath the threshold for paying or this is a subsidiary employment so class M which would be nil liability. Some pensioners continue to work in PS so are paid their pension and a salary separately.
@AnnieBelle: havent reached 40 years yet. Post ’93 i pay both PRSI and pension contributions. Pension is then calculated minus the OAPie; pension is half your wage (38,000/2= 19,000) minud OAP(14,000) = 5,000 pension (plus OAP)
@Stephen Cumbers: But your PRSI is much less?  Are you on Class B, which is 0.9% as opposed to 4% for Class A.
@Cate Keating: not less. ClassA like everyone else.
@Stephen Cumbers: If you are post 1995, then your Class is B or D, it cannot be A.  Class A was only introduced in 1995 and the way payment to the pension scheme altered.
@Cate Keating: Sorry, should read, if you are pre 1995
@Cate Keating: made permantant post 95 so class A PRSI. Plus superann pension contribution, plus widows and orphans contribution, plus pension levy etc.Believe me, i have questioned this 1000 times. When i retire i get my pension, which i contribute to, minus the OAP whic i also contribute to.
@Stephen Cumbers:  Do you mind me asking what sector of the PS do you work in? Is it Civil Service/Health/Education? What is your pension scheme? Why is your pension based on half of your salary??
@Stephen Cumbers: I keep trying to reply to you but it will not post it up.  Journal.ie, why do some replies work and others don’t?
@Grainne Abdulaziz: 3000 a year for each year of service, he’d a done much better at the lowest level of the civil service.
@AnnieBelle: local Authority. Superannuation pension scheme.
@Stephen Cumbers: can’t be right Stephen. You are in the DB scheme so you should be guaranteed a lump sum and 2/3 of final salary based on your service. Your pension contributions should be small when you take the OAP abatement into account.
@Sean @114:Maybe 2/3 Sean. I need to check that out.My point is I contribute to both OAP and superann pension. The 2/3 (or 1/2) is reduced by the OAP amount. So even if my pension is worth €20,000 it is reduced by my OAP amount.
@Sean @114: There is not such thing as a lump sum and 2/3rds your final salary, it does not exits in either the private sector or the public sector, it would be in breach of all laws.    The maximum you can get is 2/3rd salary as a pension and if you take a lump sum, part of that pension is commuted.  This is where the 50% salary and 1.5 times salary of lump sum come in.  Anything above this is in breach of overall pension law that applies to all.
@Sean @114: I have heard this scenario played over the airwaves as if you in the private sector get 2/3rd of your salary and a lump sum but we in the public sector only get 50% as a pension.  You cannot get 2/3rds of Final Salary as a Pension plus a lump sum.  There are no laws that allow this, it is a total impossibility.
Not only is it excessive, its obscene, its a slap in the face for all families struggling to make ends meet and keep a roof over their heads, for old and sick folk lying on trolleys, for the homeless and disabled , yep big bucks for what ???
And these figures do not include his pension as a teacher (principle) that he also gets after only a couple of years teaching.
@Michael Webb: its actually sick when people int his country have to live on 100 to 188 euro a week. It is sick.
I don’t have an issue with the pension amount. He was the Leader of our country for 6 years so the amount should reflect the stature of the position. It’s the lump sum that’s a kicker. Why such a huge amount or any amount? The pension should be enough.
@jonathon carroll:Everyone that has a pension pot is entitled to take a % as a tax free limo sum. He was a TD for 40 odd years so the lump sum is probably an appropriate amount.
@jonathon carroll: Leader???
He has held arguably the toughest job in the civil service, none of us wouldn’t be capable of doing it, few people are. When you compare it to private pensions for CEOs etc., then it’s perfectly reasonable. It’s a lot higher than average but then so was his role and responsibility. I’m not a Kenny groupie by any means but he has worked hard in a thunderously difficult job for 40 years
@Dublin Rover: How do you make that out ? Senior civil servants write out all his scripts he only has to recite and even then he makes a blunder of it. Have you not noticed him wearing his earpiece lately so that he can be told what to say if asked an  awkward question ?
@Dublin Rover: well said there.
@Dublin Rover: A trained monkey would have done a better job than him.
@Nointerest Here:The monkey would not have required training
“Do you think Enda Kenny’s pension payout is excessive?” Is that a serious question??
Just doing a check here. So the word i typed in my comment was G O B S H I T E but I am  not allowed to put it together. Can I ask the journal why? Is this section so ultra conservative that it won’t even all me to say a simple term like that?
@Nointerest Here: I just want to know what algorithms ye are using to censor words. Was it designed in the Fianna Gael politician?
Why should length of ‘service’ (it galled me just to type that…) have anything to do with the pension of a politician? He was ridiculously well paid the whole time…better paid than than most politicians world wide, includinf the US President…and for most of it he didn’t do an awful  lot.Can anyone remember Enda Kenny doing anything notable during the Celtic Tiger years other than complain that FF weren’t doing enough to feed it?
@Tom Goss:That’s how defined benefit pensions generally work.
Able to earn multiple pensions for a few years work? That’s excessive everywhere except in the Bermuda triangle of politics.
Let’s see if he vows to give any of it back, considering the vast majority of people he represents think it’s far too much.
Soon he’ll expect a Hogan-style bump in earnings in Europe with a cushy number as playoff for his devotion as EU lapdog!
It’s an obscene amount for him to trouser,but for me the biggest issue as a taxpayer..is politicians received multiple pensions from the public purse..give them a pension by all means..but only one publicly funded…if they want more,let them buy one..and hope whoever is in govt don’t use it as a piggy bank
40 years a TD, 6 of those as Taoiseach and I don’t know how many as a Minister.Seems quite reasonable to me and generally far less than equivalent private sector.
@Gagsy 99: his pension pot is supposed to be worth 2million – that’s a plain lie. For a private sector worker to gain those entitlements, they would have to amass a fund worth in excess of 4 million. Getting into the dail is better than a lottery win.
Considering he has been paid way more than he should have been for many years and the current national dept we have. Their pensions should be linked closely to the average national wage agreements.
Any Irish politician who has spent decades in the Dail, including years of ministerial office, and especially the highest in the land- Taoiseach or Minister for Finance, is entitled to be paid a pension in accordance with the experience ordinary citizens had under their control; Enda Kenny should be fined 2 grand a week, every week, for the rest of his life, Bertie and Brian Cowen 3 grand weekly, and Michael Noonan should bankrupted!
@Michael Bride: so that is whats meant by a sense of entitlement. I often wondered.
@Nointerest Here: Can’t tell if you’re agreeing with me, or arguing?!
Is he worth €6 million??? No chance
Add to 40 plus years of salary and expenses.  Nice number
Do we think his pension is excessive?Which one he has three state pensions.Be worth some of you folk reading Callan’s piece in the times today.It would scare you the trail of destruction himself and Noonan left after themselves to-date.
Bet he didn’t look forward to anything like that in his school teaching days! I wonder what qualifications he had to warrant such a huge pension, other than being the son of a politician?
Disgraceful disgraceful. And all our money he wasted over the years too!
Politicians and top civil servants salary/expenses/bonuses etc are sickeningly and grotesquely high “specially when measured against results,, but more significantly it serves to separate them from the reality and impact of their decisions on the general population, politicians etc must be effected by the decisions they make otherwise certain sections of society will be constantly made to suffer
How the hell do 21% of people think this is ok???? Seriously, what planet are you living on??
I’m always surprised that when judges, ceo’s or politicians pensions are mentioned there’s an out cry of “we can’t touch them it’s unconstitutional”.I had my contractual pension slashed by an order signed into law by Micheal D Higgans on Xmas morning
Don’t forget about his teachers pension too.
If he had some decency, he should donate it…
Many people think politicians are lazy, but it is one of the toughest jobs , 16 hour days 7 days a week , Even working on holidays.I don’t like Kenny but I don’t believe he is corrupt in any way , so I would much rather him getting a payout than some of the others.Like him or loath him he has led the country towards a better future,.
@Paul Kelly: I bet you are pretty well off yourself and have no idea what it’s like on the breadline. If you don’t believe he’s as corrupt as the rest of them, you must live in a very special world.
@Paul Kelly: should try working in the catering industry – 16 hour days -7 days a week and for a pittance to what these greedy bstards are getting and if you make a mistake or cock something up your fired- no pension pot ,no ‘disappointment fund’ nothing ! where do you get this 16 hrs day -7 day week from? the dail is not sitting on a monday and only half day friday -no sat or sunday sitting – so thats only 4&1/2 days a week not 7 – yes i know not all the work is done in the dail chamber – but then how many times do you actually see more than a few of them in the chamber -only time is when their is a vote on their pay or ‘entitlements’ .  the public service do most of the ‘ground work ‘ for them – script writing -telling them what to say ,when to say it , where to be and when to be there  – as for ‘holidays’ just how many days has the current dail sat since the last election? more than 300 ? 250? 200? less than 200 ? 150 ? 100? with all the ‘extra’ little holidays they have added to their already rather generous holiday allowance i would think it is less than 150 . not bad in 18 months !and dont forget -they are paid extra just to turn up for ‘work’ and get paid to get there ! .last but not least your last comment should be amended to read -” he has led the top 5% of this country towards a better future – for the vast majority he has done the opposite !
Yes of course it is excessive…and its a stupid question really…The phrase “not one red cent more’ comes to mind….
I’m always surprised that when judges, ceo’s or politicians pensions are mentioned there’s an out cry of “we can’t touch them it’s unconstitutional”.I had my contractual pension slashed by an order signed into law by Micheal D Higgans on Xmas morning
Morally corrupt.
IT is excessive, but one exclusive to him alone. The only thing I can say in his case is that he has served over 40 years in the Dail. He has been well paid, but he also paid loads of Income Tax, PRSI and pension contribution, but in the ordinary scale of things their pensions are excessive.
@Eugene Comaskey: we all paid taxes he is no different. How can ye Gaelers justify masses of money yet ye hate someone getting 188 a week on welfare who worked and paid their taxes. Double hypocritical standards is the norm for Fianna Gael.
If it can be justified, why not? But justify the money first, as the people of this country pay his ridiculous wage, we should see if it’s fair or not
Probably worth it to get rid of him.
Quote: “It is morally wrong, unjust and unfair to tax a persons home”
No wonder they want the daughter to “inherit”the seat. Who wants to let that kind of money out of family possession?
Stupid question. Of course it is. All their pensions are excessive. Shouldn’t be getting them until national retirement age either.
Based on performance, yes.
I’m always surprised that when judges, ceo’s or politicians pensions are mentioned there’s an out cry of “we can’t touch them it’s unconstitutional”.I had my contractual pension slashed by an order signed into law by Micheal D Higgans on Xmas morning
Qualifications, a brief time spent as a teacher thanks to Daddy getting him the job and then Daddy dies, hops on gravy train, sells the country to vulture funds, EU sycophant, Sociopath, qualifies him for the guillotine, not a pension.
A pension for being a useless cowardly establishment idiot who sold out country???
His politician pension or the teaching one?
No he’s the Taoiseach and was a TD for 40 years.  A lot of people in very average jobs get as much or more.
@prop joe: People in average jobs don’t get a pension of 120k plus per year. Nowhere near.
@prop joe: Is it possible to be so dense.
@prop joe: What do you think is the average wage and the average pension?
@Reg: sorry, what I meant was average jobs compared with being Taoiseach. Must Managing Directors of companies with a few hundred employees would be getting more. And a lot of our business leaders do a very average to poor job. The Taoiseach getting a lump sum of 378k isn’t outrageous.  120k is high but he is in the top tier of jobs.
Do you know Joan Burton changed the pension entitlement to double the amount of contributions needed to qualify for a pension in 2012 and gave no forgiveness to women who took time off to have children before 1994 which means that all the ladies retiring now who would have been 44 in 1994 who took off time to have children and started working at 17/18 which was the norm in the day are now finding despite 30 plus years of work they are not entitled to a full pension.  Age action and ICA are trying to fight it Its extremely unfair and mostly affecting women Joan Burton did this at the same time she cut the telephone allowance etc for pensioners no one knew she did it until people who thought they would get their state pension after years of work applied for it
thousand of CEO’s get far bigger pensions for a lot less responsibility.  I would have tied his pension to performance and have it underpinned by KPI’s.
Is a laugh golden handshake didn’t we pay his salary over the years no one should get a lump sum and there pension should be capped to the national wage
Kenny nor any other politician deserves these obscene payments.
Ironic that this moron that has shafted the Irish taxpayer for so long. Will still be a burden on them when he is shuffling round crossmolina out of harms way.
Yes i think it’s excessive especially when he done such a shite job!!
That’s nothing compared to what Retiring CEO’s from Banks & various Companies get! He was Prime Minister!
@Maire: when.
firstly, anyone who wishes can apply to join the civil (or public) service and get promotion or try to get elected to partake in the running of the country – the conditions of employment are as set out – whether the pay and conditions (and pensions) are too large is open to debate but one must remember that being Taoiseach or one of the top paid civil servants is a 24/7/365 job and not one that you can walk away from at 5pm on a Friday and not have to worry about until 9am Monday – this it one of the many things taken into account at arriving at the pay and conditions and pensions.It would be interesting to compare his retirement benefits with those of the CEO of a large multinational with a budget and comparable work force to see how private and public pensions compare before deciding that his retirement benefits are “excessive”  – after all it is only fair to compare like with like and accept or condemn everyone’s pension on the same basis.That said I so think there is something wrong with the income/pensions in the private sector that is market forces or union driven as well as in the public sector where income in either sector is excessive, but the definition of excessive is subjective and to someone on 200 a week 500 a week could be excessive whereas to someone on 500 a week 2000 might be excessive – which actually makes the poll a nonsense – as there is no definition of excessive
@Niall Ó Cofaigh: you do know the big difference here is accountability. None in government or civil service as opposed to private enterprise.
Good old school teachers…
So all the photo ops means nothing now? Goodbye suckers…
As ive said before a high salary is good for politicians if paid low will be bought by big business and also only the rich will end up in government…
Enda is only 66 and should not get this overpaid pension until he is 70 yrs old. Like the rest of us. Plus I think for public servant, it is too much to be paid for a pension. As for stress levels in his job as Taoiseach, he has already been paid for this, reflected in his salary while working. And his golden handshake bonus is obscene, whatever happened to the “gold watch” gift? Most of us don’t even get that.He will most likely ,while claiming his pension, get another job as a columnist for a newspaper, perhaps even a private position in Brussels or the ECB and that is all without being means tested for whatever investments he has and made over the years.Yes, this all leads to being set for life, almost as good as, if not better than winning the Lotto. Which darkens the their motivation to become Taoiseach in the first place. You don’t have to do a good job, you get a company car and driver, as much pay as the US president if not more, a fat pension, free travel, free lunch, free medical, a get out of jail free card, no taxes to pay EVER, and you don’t even have to pay your tab at the Leinster bar. Who wouldn’t want to be Leader, beats working for Aldi or McDonalds!
Personally I think he deserves it. He has done a very good job as taoiseach. Compared to when he took over the country it is in excellent shape and he has put in a serious amount of graft to get us there. So why not?
@GunsGerms: it’s actually in worse shape than when he took over the country. The world economy has improved and so has world banking and as a result Ireland has improved. That’s nothing to do with Enda Kenny or Michael Noonan for that matter.
@Gareth Cooney: if that’s the case then shouldn’t FF be absolved of all blame for the crash?
@Chicken George: true a lot of it wasn’t their fault.That doesn’t change the rampant corruption and cronieism in f.f/f.g
Shocking but not surprised, Politics needs to be cleaned up, a politician should only be allowed to serve three terms and the only pension they should receive when they are retired or replaced is the state pension that they will receive when they are 65 and above. Greed has destroyed Irish democracy and it is sowing the seeds for a French style revolution in the future.
Enda Kenny retires with a pension of 126,000 euro after 42 yrs service, I get 35,000 euro after 40 yrs in nursing profession. I m not cribbing but surely this has to be grossly unfair. Is it any wonder would be politicians are breaking down the doors to get into the gravy train that is Leinster house. We need a revolution to stop this gross abuse of public money. How dare they.
Will he be off to Brussels soon ?  Surely he is entitled to a reward for service to the European Commission in the near future !
@Tweety McTweeter: he’s as bent as an shave hook
ENDA give us all a little moral compass @ give ur pension to the homeless
He should pay loads of taxes
You did a good job Michael, impossible to please everyone but you did a good job.
@KerryBlueMike: He rode a wave and didn’t have the balls make decisions in the best interest of the people he was elected to represent. If he was CFO of a company and didn’t make decisions in the best interest of the shareholders he’d have been fired long ago.
@KerryBlueMike: He needs to answer the questions as to what he knew about  the “Grace Scandal”
@Rocky Raccoon: not quite true. His shareholders were and are banks vulture funds and DOB. He made fantastic decisions for them.
@Brendan Hughes: I used to have respect for Noonan years ago but his treatment of the hepatitis victims a while back was nothing short of contemptible. As finance minister he has pandered to European banks and become an ally of the vulture funds that are responsible for people being made homeless.  He as much as any of his predecessors has turned this country from a society to an economy.If ever you needed a reminder of who never to vote for both he and Kenny are there to remind you.
@Rocky Raccoon:Ehhh…………………… not quite true there Rocky.He was elected, you are correct. He did what he did with the sanction of cabinet.He was elected again, by those same shareholders you claim should have fired him and represented his constituents exactly the same way as he had done in the previous five years.So it’s you that’s not happy not his constituents.
@KerryBlueMike: The delusion in this country is at crisis levels it would seem. Some seriously deluded people.
Bankrupt IMF-run economy with 15% unemployment, turned into a booming economy with near full-employment.History will treat the man kindly.
@KerryBlueMike: he did in his swiss
@KerryBlueMike: Idiot. He raped this country and sold it to vulture funds. You are pathetic with your simpleton comments.
@Diarmuid: Only liars like you and Gael believe that. We all know that figure was pulled out of Endas ar*e. You are pathetic.
@Christopher Gardiner:  Noonan’s fans are out singing his praises, not a mention of the potential millions he made himself while he was robbing the rest of us to sweeten The EU.  He is in a bad situation if he makes a run before Leo or Simon throw him out.  With Kenny and Noonan gone there are only another 148 we hope get the message and f off.
@KerryBlueMike: so good a job that he forgot about the aib shares….. Yeah another great performance by this shambles of a government.
@KerryBlueMike: his answer was to increase taxes on the coping class without any thought of peoples ability to pay , he also guillotined the property tax through the dail  on the family home, a tax Kenny said years ago was immoral and a vampire tax.
@KerryBlueMike: jesus i cant believe your comment has got over 500 thumbs up. There is definitely no hope for this country
@Terry: i am not the only one, thank God.
@Diarmuid: If the truth about him is swept under the carpet.Evil personified.
@Diarmuid: hopefully he will be history soon enough, he has been a burden on Irish taxpayers for too long.
@Diarmuid: you assume that anybody who is not on the live register is employed.
@Patrick McCann: most of the likes were generated in the f.g fraperoom. About 10% are genuinely deluded followers of the f.g cult.
@Charliegrl80: a blueshirt bullshitter. King of Austerity
@Christopher Gardiner: ok Buddy with your “idiot”and “raped” comments, wind your neck in. I’m not interested in taking insults from the likes of you. If you don’t like it hop on a plane and get better, don’t just park your arse whining like a baby. Move around, improve, get stuck in.
@Rocky Raccoon: He was the best available man to do the hard job and he did it well. History will show he was a good man. So easy to be on the sidelines and throwing rocks but not equipped or prepared to do the hard work.
@KerryBlueMike: ‘Abolish the USC’ – ‘Let’s keep the recovery going’ – wonder how that worked out….
@eastsmer #IRExit: I think they decided to maintain welfare as much as possible instead. A wise decision as it turned out. The €4B that the usc brings in is an astronomical amount of revenue and can’t be done without.
@KerryBlueMike: In other words‘Say anything to get elected’or in the LAB way‘Isn’t that what you say in an election’Around here we would call them liars…
@KerryBlueMike:  no actually he placed debts onto everyone’s kids that aren’t theirs.Find me anyone who thinks that’s a good job.
@KerryBlueMike: The Hep C Minister is heartless man AND he financially  screwed the country with his neo liberal and stupid pro European politics. Feck off and don’t come back Noonan
@Diarmuid: Might shock you to know the country is still bankrupt.Existing on unsustainable debt. Noonan is a charleton. Sickens me to think this man will walk off with a limp sum and a huge pension. Hope he dies soon.
@Diarmuid: Great records with digits and banksaving , including his own bonds.As human being , he is bankrupt in all senses exept monitory.
@James O’Reilly: “hope he dies soon” and “sickened that he gets a lump sum and pension”. Just take a moment and listen to yourself…..
@Rocky Raccoon: if any td was an employee of a private company they would be fired !
@KerryBlueMike: Of course it’s a fantastic amount of money but it’s workers money to do as they please with. Originally a temporary tax!!!
What a day fantastic !
@Morizy: it would be if social welfare was dropped and universal tax eliminated.
@Mairtin Cathbhar: social welfare dropped? As in its too high?
@Shawn O’Ceallaghan: 188 is a lot of money for doing f@#k all to be fair. Especially when there are jobs there.
@JJ O Riordan: jobs in rural Ireland too? People live outside cities dont you know?
@Mairtin Cathbhar: why dont u  go after the multinationals who wont pay their fair share instead of the poor?
@JJ O Riordan: My god you are one dummy, What jobs fool. Cheap two bits ones is it. Slave labour is it. Everyone has bills to pay. I bet you you don’t live on 188 a week. I’d love to get my hands on vermin like you.
@Christopher Gardiner: chris are you saying you wouldn’t take a minimum wage job?.
@Christopher Gardiner:  If anything, people on social welfare are the parasites. Do you even know what that word means? He’s saying to cut it, therefore he’s the opposite of a parasite.I’m quite aware this senile idiot along with the rest of the shower are talking shite about unemployment figures though (look at tax-take). He’s only stepping down because the house of cards is about to come tumbling down.We’re paying for that dole of yours in case you didn’t know! I’d love to live down the country, but there’s no work there so I’ve to face facts and live in Dublin to find a job. And take a fecking chill pill, so aggressive.
@JJ O Riordan: yes they go mad for that 188. Unfortunately the jobs probably just scrape past the 188. By the time you pay to get there and back its not worthwhile.
@Gus Sheridan: nothing to stop you renting in Dublin, its only 500 a week and if you were earning 450 you would only be down 50, before you clothe and feed yourself.
Once he’s held accountable when the findings from project eagle are announced. Up to his oxters in it.
@Tony Murphy:  Accountable really on a story about Irish politics……We don’t do accountable the best we can hope for is a tribunal that costs a few million and states the obvious that Noonan and Nama shafted the nation for Billions – Like all tribunals there will be not a single repurcussion
@Tony Murphy: He also needs to answer to the survivors of abuse why land given over by the religious has a new school built on it in Limerick. “Nothing against Limerick “
@Tony Murphy: there will be no findings from project eagle
@Tony Murphy:  Unfortunately, the record shows that he won’t be held accountable. Like his daylight robbing of our pensions, the system ensures that no one is ever held accountable in Ireland
Whatever else about him he has been an excellent minister for finance.He stood up against pressure from Europe to maintain our corporate tax rate. Had he given into this our unemployment rate would be significantly higher today.I’m aware he has PLENTY of flaws but history will look on him as one of the best ministers for finance we have ever had.
@Theunpopularpopulist: good point – I don’t like the man but credit is due to him for that: even though he made himself unpopular defending our corporate tax rate.I hope whomever takes over will do the same.
@Theunpopularpopulist: the unemployment rate is down because of not attaching emigration figures to it, and back to work schemes manipulating the figures. In the 1980′s recession, when unemployment was equally bad, these same donkeys simply removed everybody over 55 from the unemployment figures and put them in a new category called the pre retired. Same leopard, same spots!
@Adrian:  that’s completely bogus. More people employed in the state then ever before? Or let me guess that’s just made up as well?You don’t have to like the guy or vote for him but at least make your case with facts.
@Theunpopularpopulist: he was the worst minister for finance, unless you are a junior bondholder…just like himself. A great day for the country when this nasty bully goes. Disgusting individual.
@Theunpopularpopulist: and if a bit of creativity was shown we wouldnt need to rely on multinationals so much pure laziness a 2 yr old could do it!   We re known as nothing more than a tax haven amongst financiers something to be proud of i suppose!  Soon enough our coporate tax rate will be harmonised.
@Theunpopularpopulist: History will look on him truthfully that he was a heartless clone for the EU and a lapdog.
@Theunpopularpopulist: try telling that to the hundreds of irish families who lost someone to suicide as a result of decisions made after the financial crisis. The banks should have been let fail like they did in Iceland and we’d be rid of a major scourge of society
@Theunpopularpopulist: idiot, there are more employed because there are a lot more people living here than before (in recent history)
@Theunpopularpopulist: i agree hopefully the new one has the balls to stand up to the unions so our country not broke again
@Theunpopularpopulist: He was and is a European bum boy like the rest of the FG traitors
@Theunpopularpopulist:You must be a steakholder.
@Con Murphy: *stakeholder.You must be both verbally and economically illiterate.
Best news yet
@Ann Hayden:A seismic moment indeed
@Ann Hayden: no 7 million in a Isle of Mann bank account for you then. With that bad attitude.
Let’s hope the next finance minister keeps up his good work with the economy.Tall order.
@Diarmuid: Its clear you are brainless. Every single comment you make is fake and plastic just to annoy people. You have zero integrity. You are disgusting and you will get whats due and your pathetic parasitic party.
@Christopher Gardiner: he is a FG plant, ignore him.
Can’t explain to you how much I would like to give you an almighty slap. It might get some sense into you but i’d say you’re far, far beyond that. I genuinely feel sorry for anyone who has the misfortune of knowing you. Please don’t have kids but god help them if you already have.
Today just keeps getting better!
Wonderful news, the week just keeps getting better. I would go out this evening for a drink to celebrate but ohh I nearly forgot I don’t have two cent to rub together never mind enough for a drink or two.
JOY TO THE WORLD , The man that hated the ordinary working man/woman in this country, This is the best news I have ever heard, there isn’t words to describe this person,the worst finance minister since the foundation of this state. I had given up but suddenly there is a small bit of hope.
@Gulliver Foyle: well said! he s not the only one though
I suppose when they were together, they could back up and defend each others incompetence.  But when one is gone, the other is horribly exposed.
Rats and sinking ship comes to mind. Hmmmm…
His head must have got too big to fit in the trough. Still, nice few pensions to gorge on.
I hope Noonan apologises to the countless woman who enjured so much pain and suffering because of the blood scandal.
@Chris Clancy Wilson: well said Chris
Well done Michael. You steered the country well through the crisis & recovery and you kicked the IMF out of town. Thank you.
@Fred Jensen: Noonan just followed the plan agreed between FF and the IMF. Maybe you should congratulate FF?
@Fred Jensen: how much as FG paying you nowadays? Is it still by the amount of words you spout?
@Fred Jensen: the only reason the kicked the inf out of town was that they are going to tackle salaries and pensions of tds , the cost of lawyer s and barristers
@Fred Jensen:Inflicted crisis on the disabled, sick and low paid. Further divided an already divided society. Still we won on the water charge and the laptop tax.
Brigid McCole, Grace, nama, etc. Any of those three thing should have seen him jailed. Disgusting excuse for a human being.
Ding Dong the witch is dead, which old witch? Both of them
Woo hoooo! Both of them together!! Noonan too!
Kenny and Noonan finally gone.This is a good for Ireland.
The vultures will be so disappointed
Was a good finance minister …..However allowing NAMA to sell property cheaply in a rising market was big mistake….Battersy power station was sold for  £700 million….One year later was sold on for £1.1 billion by new owner….
Do you think it’s possible his replacement will actually tax vulture funds and stop pandering to the ultra wealthy? FG! I think not
@Roger Clarke: I guess you would prefer he just hand out money and cut taxes hand over fist? Like Bertie and McCreevey?By the way, nobody supports what the vulture funds are doing, but just remember when we had nothing in 2008, and you couldn’t give property away – those vulture funds had the cash, and we readily took it.
He stood firm and held the ship on course so I have much respect for him as minister and as a man who has been through so much personally in recent years.Is he without sin ? I guess not…..our insurance premiums are 400% greater as a direct result of his intervention but I suspect that will revert to normal business soon enough.So ….fair play to you Mr. Noonan and thank you for your service.
@Ronan C Gantly: Blue Shirt or deluded, can’t make my mind up?
@Terry: both!
@Ronan C Gantly: the nazis held a steady ship for many yrs too
@Ronan C Gantly: its tough reading your comment. Its hard to believe there are brain dead people like you who believe lies. He destroyed this country.
@Christopher Gardiner: agreed
May as well just call for another election so….
@Simon Moore: and let FF take over again? Why would you want that?
Thanks for the 60 billion
A man who every time he was a minister presided over some scandal or other.  Should have been kicked out long ago.
Michael Noonan has been a very good servant to this state. He has done a very good job as Minister for Finance over the last 6 years to bring our economy back from the brick. Now anyone who wants a job has a job, weekly there are announcements of jobs coming on stream. These are all as a result of the decisions he made as Minister. Yes many of his decisions were unpopular but were necessary and when people review his legacy in years to come they will realize what a good Minister for Finance he actually was. Remember this man could have easily retired prior to the 2011 election. He didn’t need the money, the hassle, the stress or the abuse he received for help this country in its hour of need. Its very easy for people behind a keyboard or even the opposition to give out and shout that there are other ways to do things but none of them had to make the hard decisions that Minister Noonan had to. The economy was on life support when he took over, now that it is functioning again it will support the correction of other elements of society. In Iceland private people lost their savings, in Greece social welfare payments were cut to 25%. Thankfully with the steady hand and brain of Minister Noonan nothing so drastic happened in this country. People who understand how the economy works are grateful to Minister Noonan for all his hard, diligent work.
@Anthony O Reilly: Michael noonan is nothing more than a parasite who pandered to the super rich and made sure Irelands assets were sold off. He benefited nobody here only the rich. Obviously you are one of them. We have no healthcare or decent jobs and we are 200 billion in debt thanks to Noonan and pig Kenny. You are deluded or paid by Fianna Gael to come on and try to spew venomous lies. You could have spared yourself the trouble because everyone on here knows the truth about them. Parasites best describes Noonan and Kenny. Good Riddance.
@Anthony O Reilly: By the way I study and I know exactly how the economy in third level so keep your lies for idiots who believe it like yourself.
@Anthony O Reilly: very well said Anthony. A steady hand on the tiller at a critical time in our history. His replacement in finance will have a hard job to do as good as Michael Noonan.
@Christopher Gardiner: How do you know Anthony is rich?
@Christopher Gardiner: what class are you in? You should be doing your homework, not on here with the grown ups.
@Christopher Gardiner: WE are in debt because of the money that WE borrowed.
@Anthony O Reilly: Anthony, today alone there were 62 evictions in Tralee courthouse.http://tinyurl.com/lpbzvlxAnd that is just one day out of 365.Minister Noonan and his ilk forgot about the people.Nothing will change until we can get rid of the FFFGLAB Ltd. organisations.They are only in it for themselves and their organisations not for you and I.
@Anthony O Reilly: you left out the bit about agreeing to placing debts on your children for years to come.
@sean, but the benefit class on here will have you think that it was noonan and enda that borrowed the money so we could all have second homes, and not second homes to live in either, second homes as a speculative investment. But the benefit class have had their payments cut, so sitting on their asses doesn’t pay as well.
He should be in jail.
All the comments supporting Michael Noonan are intelligent well made points, with the caveat stating that “he did make mistakes and have flaws”. Those comments made against him are competing for best insult – it really demonstrates the intellect of the people behind. Being minister for finance is not just about handing as much money to the social welfare as is possible, its about understand global financial markets, interest rates, bond rates, FOREX and a whole host of other financial issues that most on here couldn’t begin to comprehend, let alone actually execute. But hey, you can write a good insult, so I guess you’re all set.
@Larry Fitzwell: You miss the point – a lot of us do get financial instruments and Noonan explicitly didn’t. Also the role of a minister for finance isn’t to become a financial whiz, there are a plethora of advisors and consultants to provide that information – it’s to decide on policy that is best for all citizens of Ireland. And again, Noonan failed in this front.
@Larry Fitzwell: Are you stupid. Who said anything about welfare. He pandered to the super rich and sold out the Irish people and sold off our assets to vulture funds. Don’t be so stupid.
@Gulliver Foyle: His above comment is typically condescending like Noonan. Us poor people are so stupid we don’t know economics and we should let the country be run by intelligent people like Noonan. We’ll just under a tree while God Noonan does his magic. Arrogant ignorant a** hol*s is all they are. They need to be dragged down off their pedestals and they will soon enough.
@Christopher Gardiner: the most basic measure of a minister of finance is the state of the economy. Sovereign debt rose from €90b to €210b under his watch. No pressure, requirement or need from anyone else, just the ineptitude of their failed hero.
@Larry Fitzwell: well said Larry, clowns on here have been encouraged by the mob mentality of the water protesters and scroungers.
@Christopher Gardiner: who will do the dragging?
He doesn’t understand finance???? Really, have you ever listened to him speak. It would be like Japanese to the likes of you.
@Christopher, vulture funds as they are now known were the only show in town in 2008. The had the cash, we were hours from bankruptcy. Noonan didn’t guarantee the bond holders so don’t try pin that on him either. You are just trotting out the same lines you’ve heard at the mob meetings with the water protestors – without giving any thought whatsoever as to what it might mean. You lack independent thinking. You are a classic sheep.
Good
Im a limerick man and I wont be shedding a tear.
@lez ferguson: just comes across as incredibly cold & uncaring
@lez ferguson: I also am a Limerick man and Noonan always was and is hated here. He is part of the parasite tribe. The well off rich who look down their noses on poor misfortunates struggling to exist here.
@Christopher Gardiner: limerick is going to have really good growth over the next few years, jobs are being created, factories are hiring and the urban regeneration is continuing. Clever people like Dennis Brosnan are involved because they see the opportunity that is at hand for Limerick. A great city and county that will go from strength to strength.
Oh glory be. I thought Kenny buggering off was music to my ears. But noonan too. Can this day get any better. Not unless a larges breasted woman of stunning looks carrying a 6 pack of beer and looking for a good time comes knocking at my door in the next few hours.
@mrmeade: was that woman related to the man with two pints in his hand?
The Country is slowly moving forward today. Finally two self serving sponges have left political life. Fitzgerald next please.
@T Jay O’Meara: Yes. Two Kun*s gone.
And make sure the lock on that closet is well and truly boltedKeep them skeletons inTo be fair to him in a time of crisis he did well but his arrogance thereafter is just unbelievable
Good
The boy wonder Simple Simon will take over from Noonan .
Another corporate governance entity leaving not 1 decision made on behalf of the people .. only corporations cause that’s were there value lies with there bosses
Thanks be to god , a two faced liar who robbed the tax payer and never paid us back like he promised . Now his partner in crime is gone he can’t stand up for himself no back up
I wish Michael Noonan all the best and thank him for his long years of service to the people of this country .  He is 74 years of age and deserves to relax and enjoy his life from now on.
@Aine O Connor: the bugger is long past his sell by date, a great day for the country with this tramp going too.
@Gus Sheridan: Hopefully, he doesn’t have a politician using the state to threaten his family with jail and financial ruin if he doesn’t disappear. Just as he did.
@Aine O Connor: Aine why don’t you shove it up your H8le, He was hated simple as that.
@Aine O Connor: He surely does Aine. I wonder who will replace him?
@Christopher Gardiner: Not hated by right thinking people who understood the gravity of the perilous state of our finances when he took over. Michael Noonan did a remarkable job.
I  would like to say good riddance however my tax money will be paying for his over inflated pensions until I die
Mrs. Bridget McCole will be his legacy
Noon an should been put out to grass years ago.
He serviced his EU masters well
Leaving behind him the whiff of brimstone and corruption!
@Brian O Reilly: he has the touch of the crypt about him
Good Riddance Scrooge
Vile toxic despicable person.
Journal could you please post an updated version of the site rules on a daily bases? I can’t think of any other way around this making the rules up as you go a long lark.Apparently calling Michael Noonan the “Grim Reaper” is not allowed but calling him a parasite is. Or was it the “Journal is becoming a Blue Shirt propaganda rag” comment?
“Grim Reaper”Is that what the IMF calls him?
@Diarmuid: No people like Brigid McCole  (an Irish citizen) if she was alive might call him that……
Noonan to walk so the loser between Coveney and Varadkar can be given his appointment in the cabinet.
Another rat jumping the sinking ship.The man is a snake and cant be trusted
Something very suspicious about these 2 slimeballs #enda slipping into the sunset and out of the limelight, something tells me the new fine gaelers will be burying their legacys for generations that come .
I always felt that I was in a safe pair of hands with Muchael. He reminded ne of the bank managers of old, canny old geezers who would sum you up in a couple of minutes. You lot of millenials and snowflakes have probably never even spoken to a bank manager….
@Ricardo Shillyshally: You venomous comment says a lot about you. Hopefully some day you will be kicked from falling. You sound like a total Pri*k.
@Christopher Gardiner: haha! You accusing another of a “venomous” comment. You really need to travel or do something to broaden your horizons.
I would be prepared to bet that the people who are excoriating Micheal Noonan from a height are mainly between the ages of 25 and 35.Why? Because they are the people who subconsciously thing the ‘boom’ from 2000 to 2010 is normal.  They think sweeties all the time is what life has to give them and when they have no sweeties they whinge. Well, welcome to reality folks.
And both retire after the man fron the EU came over here to talk about Brexit, what are the chanes of this happening, it seems well time. Who pulls those strings???
Noonan. Rich Mans Friend.Working Mans spit.
An odious spiteful little man. Only a pity he’ll never be on trial for his actions.
Michael McGrath thinks Mehole Noonan did a great job…….wow. What a fecking tribute from one party animal to another. Good aLord is there no shame is these elected public officials?
Could he be a last minute candidate in the leadership battle?Just to piss us off one last time
Locally you used to see him on the doorstep . He was visible and accessible and certainly appeared to making progress on local issues. Then that changed to just seeing him at election time. Then not even his supporters knocked on the doors they just threw in leaflets.  Nationally I suppose I think he could have been more consistent to say the least but there isn’t the feeling he sold out like Labour. So not all bad but not all good. I suppose we might see more of him locally again now …’maybe
@Catherine Sims: barely had to lift a finger to get elected no doubt hope that era is gone
Dont worry about it Ms Merkel and Mr Junkers excuse my bad spelling and their offspring will always run your finances and your country if you let them Welcome to the United States of Europe USE your politicians will be no more than senators or worse council leaders begging Berlin for more money to run more buses in Tralee
All these people ‘celebrating’ currently will be griping in a few months time regardless.
About f*cking time, useless b*stard
@Eoin: what have you done with your life ?
@Aidan O connor: just the normal stuff. Worked, paid taxes, bought a house, got married, raising a kid etc . Nothing interesting to you
@Eoin: You just expressed the opinion of 99 per cent of Ireland and 100 per cent of Limerick.
Ha like he was going to have a choice ..
This sums up the Accidental Taoiseach & the minister for taxing the poors legacy – only the truly deluded & idiotic could ever rate them as anything other than inept & corrupt.https://www.irishtimes.com/opinion/oliver-callan-why-i-won-t-miss-the-accidental-taoiseach-1.3085369?mode=amp
@Setrakian: so you take your political ideas from Oliver Callan. Interesting.
@KerryBlueMike:  I am certainly interesting Mikey boy! Your point ( if indeed you have an actual point ) steers clear of the text / facts presented in that piece and for good reason – you would forgive your rotten party & its principle dirty characters anything – idiots.
@Setrakian: Not my party boy, I don’t have one. Facts are the country was broke, Michael Noonan was appointed minister of finance and at the end of his term we are not broke any more.
Good riddance, couldn’t stand the man.
Just as well….he looks like he is falling apart!
My God, listen to yourself. In all honesty, what a despicable comment.Who would have in his place? Someone you won’t be giving out about in a week preferably.
@Grainne Kelly: he’s a see you next Tuesday
Ye guys are celebrating too early.Noonan and Kenny are still sitting TD’sThey will be on the back benches soon with suitcases full of pension and retirement bonus money that we are paying.Sure – I guess when they started out in political life they thought they could make a difference but along the way they forgot about the ordinary people.
Hope he gets a disease.
An evil  man
He is a terrible minister
Fock the 2 if them traitors dock their robbed pensions
Noonan would be due for arrest as per any other working republic… the fact he can be revered my any shows you how many fools are in the state
He is heading off to spend his billi’ns…
horrible
Good riddance!!!. Dont let the door hit u on the way out
-  but also be a party that reaches out and supports vulnerable people. -Meanwhile Leo was manning the “divide the nation hotline” trying to find a few fresh victims !#anyonebutleo
@brian boru: Fine Gael supports vulnerable like the rope supports the hanging man.
* vulnerable people
@The Risen: im a blue shirt deep down I suppose but I hope Fine Gael grow a pair and start showing some humility to people. They come across arrogant and completely disconnected from the people they serve. Trouble is theres little alternative whom could govern. Fine Fail? Lest we forget. The Shinners? Two words – Gerry Adams, the independents? Laughable, PBP? They still think their in the UCD students union in the 90s listening to Bono talking sh#te
@brian boru:Presume you mean divide the nation between those who obey the law and those who don’t and cheat on their welfare?
@Fred Jensen: Its worked on you anyway.
I’m bored with this leadership contest already!
@Terry:It’s still possible to draw some amusement by observing the other “what’s in it for me” party members. Noonan going out to grass. There’ll be new jobs for the favourite and especially supportive chronies. Can you guess who they are?
Both Simon and Leo both don’t care for those suffering with no homes or needing vital healthcare operations. Anyone who supports either is ok with vulnerable people losing homes & suffering pain waiting for healthcare.
Fine Gael a party for everybody lol.
@Paul Mc: funniest thing I’ve heard all day. Bunch of Thatcherites!
@Paul Mc: A great party for the wealthy.
None of them have any substantial experience to give to the job other than walking straight out of Uni and on to the podium. So its more years of talk and little action. Whilst Varadka is more ‘ ‘popular’ of course the Bilderberg group will get their man Coveney. But God help us all eitherway – the prize of course is getting that gold-plated pension by default.
“The what’s in it for me?” party. Elbows appointed to senate along with 7 or 8 Enda friends rewarded to an ornament institution
Is it my imagination or do the only ones who care about this are the party faithful and the press? This entire thing seems to a be total non-event, it is as if people have finally copped on to just how irrelevant our politicians really are.
@Brian McDonnell: Not your imagination at all! Most people are pretty apathetic when it comes to politics because nothing ever changes. There is some serious room for a new breed of politician. Revolution anyone?
@Linda: It’s a job interview to take over from Enda for a short while and then swap places with Micheál Martin for another while. Very exciting.
Watching rich men fight over who’s gonna control the poor.Let’s call it what it is.Waken up Ireland.
Meanwhile the EARLY MULTIPLE PENSIONS paid to former FAILED politians is ok while the poor are demonised
Are those demonising the poor ok with the former bank regulator on 640,000 + euro lump sum & 140,000 + euro annual pension. He didn’t regulate and that’s his punishment yet those who are disabled or unemployed due to his banking regulating failures are demonised. Who really “cheats us all”? What about failed TDs appointed by Enda & FG & all parties to the UNDEMOCRATIC USELESS & jobs for the boys and girls senate? What about Gilmore Pat Rabbitte on their smoked salmon & champagne “socialists”????? EARLY MULTIPLE PENSIONS? Mary Harney, B.Cowen & Bertie getting a FEWTHOUSAND EVERY WEEK along with the above and other so called socialists yet right wingers here want to rip those who exist on crumbs apart. I despair I really do to what citizens have voted for over and over again
A sham fight between two nonentities for an extra pension at our expense!
Two cheeks of the same arse !
@Colum Galvin: can say that about all political party members!
The prize for smuggest poster so far goes to Simon, Varadkar better try a different approach because Simon was born and reared to lead FG. Taking over his fathers dail seat must have being difficult for poor Simon and his brothers contacts in our agri-food sector will play no part in getting the blueshirt farmers on board.Minister for finance would suit Leo Varadkar, all them buzz words that mean nothing, sure even Kenny could pretend he knew something about finance.A real leader would just toss a coin and save the nation this embarrassment, can’t be as bad as when labour anointed Joan as leader. A whole two months creating headline distracting peoples attention waiting for there extended summer holidays.
Should be ignored, report the result.all media.
Turd sandwich vs giant douche
2 arch right wingers from a right wing government . Neither please.
Minister for agriculture sold out small farmers on the glas scheme and could not be trusted as quoted by his own tdsAs minister for housing all I can see is the situation getting worseNot Leo’s biggest fan but the better of the two
Simon Coveney hasnt a clue about how real people live…Varadkar makes no apology about it…not in touch with reality at all…..Micheal Martin for taoiseach!
As the article states. Because of the hoola boola around Enda giving up his seat the motion to stop another state company shares sold off has gone through. Bit suss to me. Brown envelopes delivered in the morning ild say.
Two useless ministers with p*ss poor track records want to be the Irish Tory party’s leader – FG are a joke. Coveney on prime time is hilariously insincere – can’t wait to hear the other chancers rhetorical bull$hit!
Simon is the right man
COYBIB
Leo s handlers taking a leaf out of Enda s handlers book keep him away from the media coz his big mouth is bound to put his foot in it
Yesterday I had an opinion on this discussion, today I think you could be living in the US and realise as bad as things are we could be in a far worse situation.
The Bland leading the Bland
Cute Cork Boy Dara Murphy TD is keeping tight lipped..afraid to back the wrong horse!!!
Leo would have something to say about that.???
Who cares whos the leader…hopefully they wont be in power next election…but then again who have to lead….and if anyone suggests SF and Gerry Adams ye can F-off ha ha!
Always liked Leo. Straight talker. Probably won’t be in for long though.
Yawn………..
Lets hope whoever wins leadership race….We get new minister of justice….Justice did not suit her because it means making decisions…Whatever happened to promise to tag criminals on bail…..
@John003: are you a criminal because you are on bail?
OK then lets be a bit more flexible and lenient…. If you have had 50 previous convictions with real victims…. For many people a burglary or an assault is not a trivial crime…Then on the 51st case where you get bail should be electronically tagged…
Frances could not get Noirin’s clearance to go for the leadership role
Will anything change for the whistleblowers soon? She is older than Enda. I’m not ageist but she is probably going to be dropped quicker than respect for whistleblowers by Garda management. She is controversy one after another & so Enda didn’t mind & left her there as he was going for his LUMP SUM & PENSIONS ANYWAY
Bob Hope and No Hope of her getting anywhere near that job. Comparable to Enda for buffoonery.
Enda required seven consultants, Frances Fitzgerald would probably need at least ten.
Good. Shes far too arrogant and condescending to be Taoiseach, and far too inept to be as arrogant and condescending as she is.
@The Risen: didn’t stop Edna.
At the same time it’s comical watching Heather Humphries blowing smoke up Leo’s arse. And Harris talking up the other lad at as being a great bloke. Coveney must have bribed him with a couple fidget spinners.All about jockeying for better positions along side their respective heroes. Sooner this charade is over the better.
@Tweed Cap: Haha fidget spinners. I can just imagine Coveney calling him up with the grand plan and Harris tapping his fingers together like Mr Burns.
To much baggage
She is just another member of FG old guard. Her loyalty to Kenny and her ovaries advanced her career over more talented backbenchers within FG. Just like noonan, o’reilly, Bruton and heathers, she can now slider away with a golden handshake worth hundreds of thousands, numerous pensions all not even means tested.Getting rid of the whole rotten shower of kennyites will cost us millions, only for another shower to rise without the country has any say.yet again our future by default are in the hands of two civil war parties who need no mandate just continue on as usual.
@leartius: fair play, and thank you, not alot of, actual, honest opinions on here lately.
Heather to become minister for silage!
@Gerry Magee: I’d say minister for what comes out of a cow rather than what goes into one….
she worse than useless
All fur coat…….
Shouldn’t have lied for her buddy Noirin. It’s cost her dearly.  Stupid stupid ….
@Grainne Kelly: be thankful that she did – it showed her true ‘character’. For someone so desperate to keep liar in Chief Commissioner in place no matter what for fear if O’Sullivan went, she’d be next it’s a good thing we see her as the self-serving snout in the trough she is.
Peter Fitzpatrick for taoiseach.
Political dynasties must stop…
@Tony Hardwicke: so you are in support of excluding some people from the political process because of who their parents were?
@Joe Conway: I would be anyway.
@Joe Conway: Why not?
@Tony Hardwicke: I wouldn’t call this a dynasty.
@Paul Coughlan: Not yet maybe , but it is a very disturbing trend in Irish politics .
@Joe Conway: I would absolutely be 100% in favour of banning immediate family members from seeking election and holding high offices in the public sector.Over the last decade we’ve seen spouses of TDs be appointed to State boards.And Enda Kenny himself “inherited” his fathers seat.We have a Garda Commissioner who appointed her own husband to a senior position within the Gardai, whose task was to spy of the little folk of this country.In my view, at least for TDs, spouses and children of TDs should be barred from running for public office and sitting on State boards for at least one generation.It is restrictive yes, but the familial cabals have to be broken!
@Joe Conway: yes – I am in favour of excluding children of politicians from inheriting their parent’s seats – at least within the same constituency.It is too brown – envelopey.
Sure wasn’t he anointed by the Bilderberg group last year
So again one of two WEATHLY NEPOTISM figures are set to become taoiseach. Each both have the cheek to demonise the poor while both those were born with SILVER SPOON & GOT PRIVATE EDUCATION Simon particularly with the MOST EXPENSIVE EDUCATION & DRAFTED INTO HIS DADDY’S SEAT A BIT LIKE ENDA WHO STAYED IN HIS FATHERS SEAT FOR 42 YEARS & ONLY WENT AFTER THE POOR FROM 2011-16
The route to taoiseach on nothing more than his father’s reputation.
@Adrian: really doesn’t matter which of them gets the job, neither of them have a clue what its like in the real world.Depressing..
@Adrian: what was his fathers reputation. Haha
Any chance we could get an article on the innovative policies they’ve implemented or examples where they were presented with a problem, developed and then successfully implemented a solution? Oh sorry this is Irish politics…no need for any of that nonsense!
As a Bilderberg attendee I would say that Coveney is the pick of the elite whose vested intrests lay on “their man” running the country. Leo is not the chosen one and besides can anyone see a gay man being head of FG. It shouldn’t matter as to one’s sexuality when it  comes to their ability to do the job but this doesn’t always ring true in real life.
@Brian Ward:You can’t say that his sexuality shouldn’t come into it on one hand and then preempt that he won’t get in because of his sexuality.If his sexuality shouldn’t come into it, then stop bringing it up. If it turns out that he doesn’t get it, you’ll have people like yourself saying his sexuality was a reason. You can’t win…
@Brian Ward:  Your right someones sexuality should not matter about suitability for the job and hopefully it does not become a factor- It should be based on track record of leadership and management of briefs something in my opinion Leo and his campaign of hate has shown none of since he became a minister.The only thing Leo seems to know how to do is spend money on fancy marketing campaigns – cant think why he is the medias favorite#anyonebutleo
@Brian Ward: you see that Varadkar has a mayo connection. God help us
@Paul Coughlan: I think though if people are expecting to a bit more ” enlightened ” or liberal because he is gay they could be very disappointed.
I like to see a more indepth look at his performance in government. If he hasn’t performed in housing then where does that leave us if he is running the country? How meaningful is it ? I’m sure there are loads of you out there waiting to enlighten us
FF PULL THE PLUG NOW & DON’T GIVE EITHER OF THESE TWO SILVER SPOONERS A HONEYMOON OR YE WILL BE SECOND FIDDLE TO FG AGAIN
@Catherine Sims: He is a truly terrible option. The man hasn’t an original thought in his head. He’s nearly worse than Enda which says a lot. He is so obviously media trained it’s ridiculous – he’s virtually impossible to listen to. He’s just another rich farmer taking over Daddy’s crown, Republic my a*se
@An_Beal_Bocht: Fair enough. I read the 2015 Hot Press interview, no change there.http://www.hotpress.com/Simon-Coveney/features/interviews/Simon-Coveney-Interview/14356299.html
Coveney as another Bilderberg convert will continue to sell off the rest of Irelands remaining assets to his fellow travellers.
Anyone who wants to be a politician should be automatically be banned from being one, a theory from Billy Connolly I happen to agree with.
Don’t know much about his proven track record , but he promised to double the Army Ranger Wing in the aftermath of the Bataclan attacks , nothing happened there .Hasn’t done much on the housing front either , more people homeless than ever before , rents higher than in boom times .
Coveney is a sleeven ! Wouldn’t trust him with the ketchup bottle
Don’t think so, Richard Burton has announced he is not running and is backing Leo
@ktsiwot: Bear in mind that a politician said that…
The smug head up on him, another spoofer
@GRONG: couldn’t of said it better, when he was marine and agriculture minister he made a promise to a certain fishery to cap the number of boats in it as it would become unviable for the fishermen who have been involved in it for decades, but what was done?  fud all full of false promises this fella. Now my jobs future is on the line.
Bilderberg coveney .. well laid plan
It’s safe to say that Coveney never did a days work in his life.
I’ll be honest he has done absolutely nothing for Cork. That isn’t a bad thing for a national politician. Just a rich farmer in a rich farmer party.
Well I was under the impression that people wanted the “keep it in the family” trend to stop. I’m surprised to see some people are happy to see that carry on. Maybe they have something to gain from it!?
Apart from being from a political dynasty and not being good media performer he is good candidate…….He is the FF and SF candidate of choice……Think he is young version of Enda…. While Leo might well bring some change and at least give us new minister for justice….Leo as FG leader might even go on Vincent Browne show…Simon Coveney never would….
@John003: not a political dynasty.
What was his job before he became a TD that allowed him to go on a year long round the world sailing charity event?
Two right wing parasites.watch the mess they leave behind them in gov.neither could run a department competently,let alone a country.
@@mdmak33: least right wing is better then being a left winger. Enda found this country in a mess and now we have the fastest growing country in the eu. As well as the fasted growing airport in the eu. That’s says lots if people are willing to trust Ireland
@alan scott: As a true right winger, he has done absolutely feck all for homelessness,social housing,spiralling rents.And sure why would he?He probably has quite a large property portfolio so  house prices and crippling rents will be quite beneficial to him on a personal level.
@alan scott: Enda and his side kick Noonan just followed the plan agreed between FF and the Troika. Maybe we should all just vote FF again?
This piece is bordering on propaganda, I was expecting the author to be a FG TD/Senator supporting him.
Simon always strikes me as a guy with permanent PMT.
Great choice! He can use his phrase “there is no silver bullet for this issue” for everything, not just for housing. At least he got great results in solving the housing crisis.
F.G…… fook em all the long the short and the tall…….
Eh…. no
Why there is no female candidate ?
@cortisola: There can’t be a female candidate just for the sake of it. The only viable option is currently fecking things up in Justice so I wouldn’t like to see her lead the country.
@cortisola: agree. I think women are capable. But we have a structure in place where men are the dominant in politics.
@alan scott: Why there is no  single feminist protesting !?
“Thrust onto the political stage”. Really? Like Coughlan and Kenny and… like no other more qualified person than a teacher could possibly look out for their folks?I hope this is the end of old politics and although I don’t like him at all I hope Varadkar wins.
https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CbB1UV2WIAAVo-T.jpgLoved by the local community in Cork…
@China Photo Daily: Installing meters, were they?
Your hatchet job has fallen flat its face,someone must have taken a big punt on Leo,now 1/8 from 1/6Coveney pushed out from 7/2 t0 9/2
@Talbot O’Meara: Leo now 1/10Coveney 11/2
I hope not ! He is not even liked in his own County . He has zero charisma and in my opinion is smug and two faced
I thinks a lot of these tds might be needing some medical or psychological help because they’re so delusional about the state of the country!
@Adrian: Its in much better shape than the opposition lead us to believe. Fastest growing economy in Europe yet again.
@Adrian:  You need to stop watching the FG Pravda TV station.
@Soccer T’s: of course it is, with leprechaun economics and tax haven status, with no stability, with the fastest swings from boom to bust cause these politicians ain’t got a clue.
@Adrian: It’s the same across Europe if not the world. All we can do is compare ourselves to other similar countries and on that scale we are doing very well. Greece took an alternative route to us when the crisis hit. How’s that going for them?
@eastsmer #IRExit: to be clear, you are saying that the Financial Times, the UK press, all the French, German newspapers, CNN etc are all FG-controlled.I had no idea!
@Soccer T’s: We went from being part of the PIIGS country’s in the EU (that’s the worst 5 out of 27) to being supposedly the fastest, just like that. It’s not realistic economics. There’s a big divide in the country between what official ireland are trying to portray with their manipulated finance figures and what’s reality, which is what most people are experiencing. You just have to see all the protests to realise that. We’re just as bad if not worse than Greece in many respects. They’re a lot more realistic than us. Our gov are faking it.
Soccer T’s  Fastest growing economy in Europe. Keep the recovery going. That’s the daily FG prayer and if it’s said enough they might get another eejit such as yourself to believe it.
@Adrian:How do you explain the 6.2% unemployment rate then? Fake news?
@Adrian: In my humble opinion people are a lot better off than they were 5+ years ago. My business has seen a positive surge which I also hear from other business people. Employment is up, spending is up. There’s no doubting the continuous issues in housing and health and the need for rural development but that’s nothing new.
@Just Me: You believe what you want. I’ll believe the independent facts
@Fred Jensen: while the natural unemployment progression is downwards after any recession, the unemployment rate is driven down more simply to make gov look good. It’s driven down more due to emigration and unemployed moved to schemes. 90k less twentysomethings in the country than 5 years ago, cso figures that are never publicly linked to unemployment figures but have a huge bearing on the figure. In the 1980′s recession, they simply took over 55s  off the unemployment figures and invented a new category called the pre retired, to manipulate the figures. Same leopard, same spots.
@Adrian: 6.2 % not on the live register, where are the then and lets see? Solas/College/Part-time/Back to education schemes/VEC/Employment schemes/seasonal work maybe?
@Adrian: *6.2 % unemployment, who’s not*
@Stephen murphy: I’d say that 90k mentioned above is about 2-3 percent unemployment. Manipulating the figures with schemes, another few percent. FG can probably claim for positively reducing unemployment by around 3 percent. On another note, Leo is now showing how utterly useless joan Burton was in SW.
Soccer T’s  Your business is up , then obviously you don’t have to work too hard at it as you’re on here constantly on a daily basis. I ran a business until retirement and I can tell you while I did I would never have had the time to be on social media daily. Are you sure you’re not living in Walter Mitty world.
@Michael Doyle: Didn’t the say the same with FF blaming them for causing all the countries going into recession.
@Adrian: You are deluded. This country is a ruin because of Enda Kenny and Fianna Gael.
@Adrian: This country is is in debt to the tune of 200 billion thanks to Enda and Fianna Gael.
@Adrian: Its simple. It is lies. People taken off the live register on two bits schemes to pretend they have real jobs. You know damn well these figures are faked. Its the Fianna Gael way and well we know.
@Adrian: U are beyond idiot. The figures you are spoon fed is Fianna Gael lies and manipulated statistics. Fake.
@Adrian: Sorry Arian this dumb site f’d up. My comments are meant for the clone Jensen
@Just Me: Social media is a vital tool in business these days. No disrespect intended but should should probably know that if you were in business. I’ve been on here twice today for 5 mins each time. We also allow ourselves little breaks in the business world these days
@Adrian: I replied but it was REDACTED like a lot of things in Ireland.CNN etc. get their news from guess who – Pravda RTÉHe who pays the piper plays the tune.
@Adrian: Yes one would not think that the establishment lifer political classes have socialized a 205 Billion debt onto the citizens, costing 8 Billion pa in interest payment’s,  All is not well in the  rose garden depicted by the political classes, of course Dame Enda will walk out with 376,000 tax free lump sum and 126,000 pension pa.  10 times the pension of the citizens who depend totally on there weekly 235 Euro.   If they received their pension at 65 they would have to live to be  live to 75 to draw down 1 year of Enda’s pension for 1 year and  they would be 96 to draw down Enda’s lump sum.   Some more equal than others in PADDYLAND’S ANIMAL FARM.
@Adrian:How do you explain the 60,000 new jobs created in 2016, majority of which were full time?And by the way, that is twice the job creation rate of the USA.
A recovered society for the few not the many Pascal Donohue. So so many homeless. People living in tents on the Capital’s quays. Kenny oversaw the housing disaster. Hiding behind the perennial excuse of that’s what we inherited is bull. They Fine Gael flogged off large chunks of property to the same vulture funds now evicting our citizenry.Good riddance Kenny
@Gerard Farrell: and how do you propose to solve all these problems?Let me guess vote Sinn Fein, tax the “rich” who earn over 40k at 80% and watch the capital flight begin.
Repeating the same old spoof over and over?Can you link to any proposal from SF involving taxing people on over 40K at 80%?(p.s. try making your spoofs even remotely credible)
The Risen:  Jammin – at least the members of FG get an opportunity to elect a leader unlike the Shinners who have an imposition both in the North and South.
Gerald, Mary Lou and the shinners will probably make Jonathan Dowdall their financial spokesperson to make sure the public pay the 80% tax. He will sanction water boarding for those who don’t. After all Mary Lou proposed him for the council.This will bring a whole new meaning to water charges.
@Theunpopularpopulist:First off not Sinn Fein voter pathetic default attempt on Fine Gael supports when criticized.Second off Fine Gael broke so many promises. Bank recapitalisation, bondholders, healthcare…..People are entitled to criticize your darling Kenny.Thirdly the problem of houseing would have been greatly alleviated if the governement had used Nama housing for the people instead of flogging it off to vulture funds.
@Alan Cooke: Seriously pathetic Fine Gael supporters don’t take criticism. I am not a Sinn Fein voter/supporter/troll. I am merely pointing out the sad truth, people are living in tents in our city. The housing crisis has got progressively worse during the so called recovery. Selling off blocks of houses cheaply to vulture funds has made this worse.
@Gerard Farrell:  should we have sold them off at a higher price to the homeless? I don’t get your logic.
@Gerard Farrell: alphanautica you do understand you just choose to ignore the reality. Getting people out of emergency accomodation and into Nama owned property would have saved the state cash in the long term. Using the property for societal good rather than turning a quick buck.
Mary Lou is a thug . Sinn Fein have a lot of high caliber people.  How can they allow this loud mouth and unprincipled mouth piece to have such a say in the party is inexplicable.
@Broadoak: she’s more of a pig with lipstick who promises the sun moon and stars knowing she’ll never be in power and therefore will never be held accountable.
@Broadoak: Agree here is a person who stood up for republican pedophiles and rapists.
@Broadoak: I’m with you that Sinn Feinn has a lot of caliber. Caliber 45, cal 38, cal 50, 12 gauge. Plenty of history in high calibers for sure
Eh no, he was not a ‘bad” taoiseach. SF are merely sore that for all their bleating, nay saying and crying foul, the country is in a much better position than it was when he took over. While I accept there were elements of “the lucky general” involved too, compare Ireland to SF’s allies in Greece and Venezuela. Would we really have been better off with ‘Jarry’ at the helm? I doubt it.
@Cheeky Bums: kenny was the worse so called leader we ever had, he spent more time out of the country than he did here, the country was in a shambles when fg/lab lied their way to power, so the only way the country could go was up and thanks to the so called opposition ff the recover ? will continue but only for the already have`s not for the dont have`s, between fg/ff/lab what chance does sf stand when no matter what they put forward is shot down by a combination of all three, and do you seriously expect them to go into coalition with a larger party who only want their support to keep them in power ? remember the pd`s and lab….
: @Peter donnelly.. You must have a very short memory! You don’t remember the shambles FF disintigrated in to before they lost power and I think everyone will agree Brian Cowen was the worst leader in living memory: drunk / hungover at the wheel. The reason why no one will go on to power with SF is that no one agrees with their farcial economic policies except themselves, their historical links to terrorism, allegations that rape and paedophelia committed by “republicans” were covered up by senior figures within the party… Do you need any more reasons? Where you see SF, these issues are never far away. They have been in opposition for about 100 years.. Here’s hoping it will be another 100 before they ever get a sniff of power.It’s a cult led by Gerry: why has he never been challenged for the leadership in all these years? Even MLD doesn’t dare to oppose him.
He wasn’t afraid of the responsibility of going into government unlike sinn fein at least, they’re great at spouting from the sidelines
@Enda Reynolds: imagine them in power. They’d have to appoint a justice minister. Oh the irony.
@Enda Reynolds: 378k lump sum. fff uuu k me. Bannana republic. hes already 3 or 4 million from salary and expenses. Christ!
@gregory: people use the term banana republic a lot. I suspect they’ve no idea what it means.
For the majority in the country Edna has been a disaster. The people on here defending him are the ones who are doing just fine and refuse to recognize that there are hundreds of thousands still suffering from this mans policies.
@Derek Poutch: or they are being paid to defend him :P
As a Munster man I hope Coveney becomes the next leader of fine gael
@KerryBlueMike:  Well anything is better then Leo……Even a Cork man
@KerryBlueMike: As a fellow Munster man I hope Fine Gael will be consigned to the rubbish bin of history where they belong.Coveney and his ilk are players in the Bilderberg group and their attention is not focused on the working people of Ireland or Munster for that matter.If he really represented his province then the major problems of our province would be resolved or at least have a plan for resolving.One major problem in Munster is the lack of a motorway between the 3 main cities outside of Leinster.Another problem is housing in Cork city.
@KerryBlueMike: That’s a great reason! Smh
@KerryBlueMike: So you pick area over qualificats then? That explains politics here all over?
@KerryBlueMike: So qualifications mean nothing?
Can’t beat the ole Socialist Party.. Sorry, Anti Austerity Alliance….. Sorry, Solidarity TD’S spouting there usual sh!te… A party with a whole 3 TD’S… Empty vessels always make the most noise, I’m just surprised that with coppinger with her orange hair and teeth to match wasn’t there holding up a banner of some sort,
@Broadoak: I’m with you that Sinn Feinn has a lot of caliber. Caliber 45, cal 38, cal 50, 12 gauge. Plenty of history in high calibers for sure.
Sinn Fein sticking their knives in. They are used to weapons of all sorts and plenty of practice.
How can we afford to pay him that!? If the country was in a better state then yes!! He shouldn’t take it!!
@Bart O Brien:  we will get half of it back in taxes and USC, never fear…
Brian Cowan did the same for himself when he packed it inGrab the last few sandwiches on the way out “for the journey home “
She should read Enda’s “Contract for the Country” speech out in the Dáil. That would cause a lot of red faces in FG. Or actually maybe it wouldn’t.
Thats an absolute disgrace….he only ever looked after the wealthy and the privileged, his own kind!
Bruton to step up and support Varadkar!
All hail Enda of the 99 pensions ( and the massive goodbye lump sum)Except it won’t be goodbye – he will still sit in the back benches
It feels like the twilight zone Mr Kenny getting more i one month than a lot of people on short time work and  social welfare are getting for  the whole 12 months
@Patrick Connolly: Ah now, it’s not as though his was a full-time job either.
Costing the state approx ,6mil to pay his pension for life….. Sickening
@Cent: He is one of many, like Legion in a way lol.
Wonder who will be the next piglet at the trough of the Kenny dynasty.
More lies on top of more lies. FF and FG and a fair few others have done nothing to help the poor people of Ireland. If fact I would go as far as saying all they done was take healthy pay checks for little or no return. When a war comes and it will come I know what side I’ll be on.
Interesting fact the state pension of 220 a week equates to a 300000 pension pot if you were to buy a private anuity
He deserves every cent and more for putting up with the moaning irish since taking office.
@Robert Deane: And for kissing Merkel’s rear?
They argue that he should leave for months, and when he finally does all they do is argue! would they ever shit their feckin g0bs
And never to receive another penny from the state #loadofbollox
Small change in comparison to many CEO’s after serving only a few years!
Thanks. I needed a chuckle this morning
And since when has she been Justice Minister?
@john Appleseed:  Pity, I was hoping for a bridge at the Potin Stil, to take the traffic out of the village. Oh well
After making such a balls as minister of Justice, what a surprise,
@prop joe: don’t forget her stint as minister for children and youth afairs, another catastrophe of hers.
@prop joe: I actually think Bruton is the most palatable of them all. He appears competent at least. Simon, I can’t bare to listen to as he’s so media trained and myopic, and Leo is just a shyster without an ounce of substance or sincerity
Surprised she’s not setting up a committee to look into whether she should run or not.
@Jack Cassady: to report in 2019 !
No surprise there after the mess that is the DOJ. Coventry has done an awful job with the housing crisis and what does Leo actually do anyway? Is this the best Fine Gael can do, really?
@sportsmad:  In fairness as least Covney has tried to lead by taking on the difficult brief – Leo cut and ran from Health as soon as he could
@brian boru: They dont get to choose their briefs. That was Endas job
@Pete Brady:  so it wasnt Leos fault he didn’t fail Enda moved him?
@Kenneth o brien: He was right Leo has been chasing power since his return from the US – A sinister politician in my opinion#anyonebutleo
What a neck
@tally ho: She had’nt a hope and she knew it.
@Just Me: most don’t but there will be deals and handshake all over the place now. You scratch my back etc…..
No loss, hopefully will be replaced in Justice with someone who can actually do the job.
Thank feck for that
Ha! Neither will I now back to work.
Her buddy Noirin saw to that!
@Grainne Kelly: Noirin better get the black bin bags for the shredder ready !
In other news…water is wet
I notice Francis voice has gone up a few octaves in tv interviews ever since her shambolic interview a few months ago. She’s lost her composure. It’s better off she avoids the humiliation she’d get. She’s not capable anyway.
Should go with Kenny as she lies to
Pity….She Really Showed Typical Irish Political Characteristics in recent months
She’s a neck like a jockeys bollox
Lol if she said that it inferred there was a possibility.Is she the worst politician we ever ever had?
It’s a sad day when you can’t call a dimwit a dimwit on the Journal. Becoming more of a Blue Shirt propaganda rag by the day.
@Terry: Let me try.Dimwit.
@Neal Ireland Hello.: Oh look the comedian still thinks he’s funny. Sadly he’s the only one!
She has already done enough damage
As if I wanted to know that. Save us from the wallpaper please.
Useless wagon.
So it’s down to the fantasist tool who thinks he’s something like James bond and the very ordinary office worker type fella who has trouble making decisions.
Why are we getting the Frances Fitzgerald article and not the Richard Bruton article ?
This is the wrong article for the headline listed
What a choice ! Covney “A secretive Bildeburger ” or  Varadkar a man who wants to punish people for doing the same thing his own party did for 9 years. At least the tiny amount of ordinary people who are getting paid under the table are doing it to put bread on their table why did Fine Gael do it? and why isnt the media talking about the hypocrisy of Varadkar and Fine Gael with their attack on Fraud?Whoever gets the shameful  job of leading that pack of self-serving gits, won;t be in it for long, their twin party are itching for some more brown envelopes.
@Martin Byrne: media never stop talking about Leo’s campaign against welfare fraud. RTE, Irish Times, leftie liberals in other media outlets all attacked him but it got zero traction with the silent majority that matters. Claire Byrne Show poll said that 70% supported Leo’s campaign against welfare cheats. You should get off social media and start meeting hard working people who pay their taxes.
Good !!
Slam dunk for Leo. The true blues are back in charge
@Dolly White: both FG true blues and their twin FF need to disappear or 90% of Irish people will be forever slaves of the Banks and corporations. We should show them both the door and adopt the 200 year old Swiss model of democracy.
No he wasn’t .
@LITTLEONE: Yes he was
Probably his biggest lie and greatest failure was his 2007 election pledge to end the scandal of patients on trollies. In fact he managed to make the health system even worse and spent 10 years blaming it on others. Ongoing neglect and Mickey Mouse patch up jobs came in the form of James Reilly and layabout Leo. In the end he left a sacrificial young lad with his finger in the dam. If you were on the breadline and suffering from serious ill health this man was potentially fatal.
@mickmc:  no he absolutely wasn’t
@mickmc: that’s your opinion.   Mine is he wasn’t…
@mickmc: oh No he fcuking wasn’t….
I suppose it you got massive writedowns from banks… Got a deal from Nama,Was a vulture fund with charitable status,   apple,.   Got big government contracts,  etc then you would think he was fantastic.. however if you were someone with disabilities,. Children with health problems waiting on operations, old ,.  Whistleblower    etc then he was useless…
@LITTLEONE: he left the country in a far better state them when he came to power.
@Ricky Spanish:  for who? Are things better for children waiting on operations? No they are still waiting… Are elderly still going cold in winter?  Yes. Are disabilities services still cut? Yes . Are A&E worse now since some where closed? Yes.   Are rural areas still suffering? Yes.. it’s better state all right for some but to suggest it’s everyone is nonsense….
@Ricky Spanish: The Irish people did that themselves.
@Orla Feeney: did the Bertie ahern lead FF government destroy the country or did the Irish people do that themselves?
He was a moderate leader which is a good thing in this age. Lets others do their job to the best of their knowledge. It’s going to be ongoing struggle to get the health service right, no matter what populist megalomaniac promises otherwise.
@mickmc ..because..??
@Tweed Cap: In fairness, the country was a very different place in 2007 compared to when he took office in 2011.
@LITTLEONE: I didn’t say everyone nobody can make things better for everyone but he took over a country that was literally bankrupt and he leaves it as one of the fastest growing economies in Europe.
@Orla Feeney: So when things go well “the Irish people” did it but when things go bad it’s the politicans fault?
@Ricky Spanish: Let me get this. You say he left the country…… and so on.The country now is worse then ever for the Irish people. The country now for the rich is back to the way it was and why. Because Enda Kenny took all their mistakes and debts and transferred them onto the Irish people. He is a treasonous snake.
@Orla Feeney: My God are you that stupid. The Irish people did not do that. That is one of the biggest Fianna Gael propaganda’s. The banks bailed out were German and European Banks who threw money at everyone. The banks were bankrupt years before but the lied and cooked the books. That was the banks NOT the people so get your facts right and try not to be a mouthpiece for a propaganda machine. You are regurgitating lies. Try to read and keep us. The people are much more educated as to Fianna Gaels complicity than ye think. It will be your downfall. Do you think we need to hear from Fianna Gael trolls here to know what happened. ha ha Keep thinking we are stupid. The only people voting for Fianna Gael are the old who don’t know any better. As they die Fianna Gael is dying. Bye Bye. Your day is run.
@Monty Donotno: No No you are mistaken. The populist megalomaniac was Enda trying to get elected and lying through his teeth. Rewind his promises. They were all broken and abandoned the minute he was elected. His EU lapdpog status then begun in earnest.
@Ricky Spanish:   he took over a country nearly bankrupt?  He took over a country where banks were nearly bankrupt.. what did he and his government do? Put that debt on the citizens of this country.. stellar job.Fastest growing economy… That depends if you include Leprechaun economics… A good taoiseach would not have made the old , sick and the elderly pay a heavy price for the failings of others.   He did…..
@Christopher Gardiner:  I believe @Orla Feeney was implying that through the hard work of Irish People, that we are responsible for the very good economic situation in Ireland at the moment. To quote yourself Christopher, “Try to read.”
@LITTLEONE: you seem fixated on bank debt. But even without that we had a massive and unsustainable current budget deficit. Nothing to do with bankers. That’s what FF left him and leprechaun economics doesn’t account for the rise in employment over the last 6 years. So people just can’t help themselves moaning at every available opportunity.
@Christopher Gardiner: fair point. From the pool of such people known as politicians, still think he was pretty balanced and not as corrupt as many before him.
NO he was a joke……………..
@Kerry Gallagher: he is a spineless b1tch that wouldn’t give any interviews and screwed every homeowner/ working person in this country and I’ll be glad to see the bank of him and a lot more of them including Joan the moan!
@Jonathan Ryan: I take it your one of that other crowd. I wonder how will Paul get on!!
Considering what Biffo left him to start with, i think he did alright.There are a lot of things he did wrong though…
@Jon Gripper McKee: FG were elected as FF were trying to socialise the potentially illegal bank promissory notes. Under solely FG, with Kenny and Noonan personally responsible, this debt was absorbed and our national debt went from €30b to an unsustainable €210b. This is Kenny’s legacy.
@Gulliver Foyle:  But what about the recovery…….. History will look back on the last ten years as the worst period in Irish History one which the country will pay for many many years. The  corrupt deals that Noonan and all those in Nama passed onto the shoulders of Irish citizens to pay for the next century.
@brian boru: Noonan is another kettle of fish altogether, and makes Kenny look like the an empathetic leader who tried to reduce waiting lists, universal health, reduce homelessness (all the things he failed at). Noonans legacy will always be Brid McCole, but he also nationalized the largest debt (per head) in the history of Europe, sold assets to vultures (who did a great job), and cut funding for care (including sarcoma funding – while he had that type of cancer). The best thing that will come out of Kenny retiring will be taking possibly the biggest traitor in Irish history (and that’s being generous) with him.
@Gulliver Foyle: Ireland’s national debt was 144.2 billion in 2010 the year before enda was elected under ff Ireland’s debt increased over 100 billion under enda it increased by less than 40 and has dropped 15 in the last 3 years.http://www.ntma.ie/business-areas/funding-and-debt-management/debt-profile/historical-debt/
He wasn’t perfect but we are far better off now than when we started and unless someone has a working crystal ball then nobody can say for sure that anyone else would have done any better
Now roll on a GE and we can get rid of the rest of the what’s in it for me party.
@ray.farrelly: with unemployment at 6% I predict a FG lead majority government.
@Barry Ryan: failing unemployment didn’t do it in 2016 and won’t do it next time. Too many other issues.
@Barry Ryan: The biggest manipulation of fake figures int he history of the state. Lies to keep ye in fodder. We know the truth keep your lies.
@Charles Alexander: Unemployment was still up and around 9%, they left it too long to try and save Labour so the 2016 election was in the winter, next election will be in the summer meaning the homeless issue is off the radar, and there’s nobody on trollys in the hospitals. Water is now a non-issue. As soon as Coveney has people out of hotels and into proper accomadation, they will call an election. Don’t use the tag line “Keep the recovery going” find something that people like and they will do very very well.The only risk is that FF voters lent their vote to FG, and if they filter back to FF, for stupid traditional reasons. Then, it’ll just be another minority government again.
@Ian McNally: Ian, you will be called a Blueshirt and a sheep for talking sense on here ! The bullies are watching you !!
@ray.farrelly: And replace them with Who? FF?
@Ian McNally: how are we better off. All you get is jobs created. What about jobs lost. What are the employment data on those at work such as hours of work rates of pay debt levels and so on
I assume the amarach research team didn’t ask people on trolleys, or the homeless, or whistle blowers. Good riddance ya spoofer.
I actually voted for him the first time he ran for Taoiseach.hospital trolly crisis worse than when elected, homelessness, corruption and cronyism all time high including minister for finance colluding with vulcher funds to pillage this country like they were Viking, no bankers held accountable for financial crisis inspite of Sugarmans offer to inform him, not one but 2 Gardai commissioner scandals, whistleblowers persecuted, water charge debacle, accepting most of eu debt and foisting the austerity on the people, his legacy is lies, half truthes, broken promises and no accountability, oh yeah!  the man in the pub with two pints. Successful leader?If I ran my business as incompetently as he ran this country over the last few yearsI would be out of business by now
@Jonathan: absolute correct jonathan in everything you said although with respect the damage that kenny and this crony’s have inflicted on the people of ireland is a little more serious and longer lasting than a failed business, this man was an incompetent, corrupt clown who lined the wealthy peoples pockets from the empty pockets of the ordinary people, he is a prime example of everything that is wrong with democracy in the world right now and he is a shame to IrelandOn a separate but related note isnt it about time that we legislated to Jail all politicians known to be corrupt and those proven to have lied for their own gain, that would shake things up enough to at least give us a better class of politician and maybe a better country
@Jonnie Kenny: Agree completely he devastated the country and his disgusting party.
@Christopher Gardiner: the country was deeply devastated before he took over. Wakey wakey time.
Best Taoiseach since Seán Lemass
@Negan: a spoofer and a waffler ! Lied he’s way into government and will lie his way out by telling people what a great job he did.  Not another cent that term will follow him to his grave
@Nucky: Even though Varadkar said it?
@Negan: The biggest embarrassment to Ireland since the foundation of the state. A failed teacher cum t shock.
@Negan: Don’t sully the memory of Sean Lemass.
He’s not a decent human being,Humans have empathy for disabled children,FG are Sociopaths,The sooner we vote them out the sooner we can start to rebuild this country in a fair and equal way!
@Niall Power: Do you think Fianna Fail are going to do that rebuilding because that are going to be invloved in the next government either way
@Robert Woodward: The commentator never mentioned Fianna Fail but you just demonstrated in perfect example what Fianna Gael have been doing for years. Deflecting questions and comparing to Fianna Fail. Ye are finished.
@Christopher Gardiner: Wishful thinking im afraid , Fianna Fail or Fine Geal will be part of the next government, numbers dont stack up to anything else.
Nothing more than an absolute liar, caughtout time and again. How many times did he meet the man with two pints or the woman on the bus?
Most people on here will say no because they’re effectively anti-government, whoever that may be. It’s easy to jump on that bandwagon but I think he’s done a good job. People will point at some specific examples of where we, as a country, are failing but he brought us out of the recession and that was always going to be tough. I didn’t vote for him first time round but he has won me over. I’m sorry to see him go. I’m sure lots of people will now reel off a selective list of things we need to improve on but you could draw up a similar list of things that have improved since he took office too. Let’s try and keep it balanced.
@Dublin Rover: 100% agree . I think he done the best with what he had. Maybe he is or maybe he is not but he doesn’t strike me as the type of man to line his own pockets like bertie and biffo I think he had Ireland interests at heart no matter how bad his policy’s and decisions looked and I think we will look back favourably in years to come. People have short term memories roll back to 2008 2009 and remember how bad it was. Still a Hugh amount of work needed across all departments especially health but is thst ever going to be where we need it to be? Seems like an impossible area to fix
@Dublin Rover: point out a few of the things he done well or decisions he made (that weren’t made for him) that helped this country.
@Dublin Rover: let’s see your list of what has improved then. It will save a lot of time on listing all that has got a lot worse under his ” leadership”!
@Dublin Rover: as a former FG voter i repeat he was USELESS although maybe not totally to certain privileged people like Noireen o sullivan Denis o brien Angela Merkel etc.
@Dublin Rover: Are you taking the sight out of peoples eyes. There are thousands of people in Ireland this second suffering because of him. Can you not get this fact. Now in the present not some Utopian future. He made the recession a million times worse. He colluded with those who enforced it. Can you not get this. He expanded and pushed austerity more than the EU. Can you not get this. You get it but you are trying to deflect form people here all down comments who the vast majority know the truth. That Enda Kenny was an abysmal  failure for Ireland but for the rich he was their messiah.
@Christopher Gardiner: Thank you for your condescending reply. It reinforces my opinion. I understand that you believe something different, and you are entitled to that opinion as I am to mine, but I feel that the vitriol that pours forth against him is unjustified. Making the recession a million times worse? Seriously? We are coming out of the hardest recession in a decade and are being heralded in some international quarters as an example of how to do it the right way, insofar as it is possible to do it. Can you not get this?
He was USELESS.
As Eamon Dunphy wouĺd say…’A Spoofer!
Stumbled from disaster to calamity. Everything he said felt scripted and false. Surrounded by several advisors and yet enables the likes of Oliver Callan to flourish on the basis of his gaffs. Followed the policy enforced by his predecessors and takes responsibility for its limited success. He has increased the disparity between the haves and the have nots. His tenure enabled the party which destroyed the country for many decades to regain ground in the last election which will probably result in FF becoming the biggest party in the next election. The fact that FF can re-emerge is surely a black mark on Kenny’s reign as leader of FG and Taoiseach.I hope Richard Bruton throws his name into the hat. Both Coveney and Varadkar are proven failures.
He was a proven liar, he was so incompetent he had to start wearing an earpiece so a handler could feed him answers to such complex problems what’s your name, your age and the class your in.Inherited his seat, spent 30 odd years asleep in the Dail, became FG leader after Hep C Noonan lead it to electoral decimation and only became taoiseach after FF ran the economy in to the ground. Then followed the deal agreed between FF and the IMF, except he didn’t go after the boys in Kings Inn, the sick, the poor and carers, he went after them though.
Best in a long time, but the standard set by the last 5 or 6 was very low. The country is in a much better place than it was in 2011 which was partially down to him and his appointments, but mostly down to the Irish people working hard and digging ourselves out of the mire that we were in, so we did flatter him a hit. But to be fair, he kept the corporate tax rate as is despite pressure. He was a bit pigheaded, even when he was completely in the wrong and should have gone at least 6 months ago.
@JJ O Riordan: And into the economic mire we will go again.  House prices rising at 10%+ wages and salaries rising at best 4% before tax, and levies, same scenario as before the crash, interest rates at zero only way is up, Brexit  and Trumpism are big danger’s to our economic growth.  Wages again chasing cost’s, Car insurance has doubled in the last 3 years,  Hotels Restaurant’s going back to Celtic tiger prices,  Property tax, ? of water tax.  When will the Irish ever learn,they keep electing the same old lifer’s to Dail Eireann and expect radical change , aint going to happen leopards do not change their spot’s.
There was no alternative not one who would have done better. All parties would have done the same. Bar sinn fein whom would have ruined our country even more so. In fairness to Kenny I think he done as best as he could considering what he inherited from FF. He may have sold the country to Germany but I truly belive the alternative was worse
@Mark Murphy: selling to Germany (bit dramatic but I get your meaning) was probably don’t around late 2010. The handshake and transaction was done by Cowan, Enda sent the logbook. Like you said, he did the best with what he had.
@JJ O Riordan: probably done, not don’t. Spellchecker doing its thing.
@Mark Murphy: Don’t waste you time. he is a liar we all know it and we all know the damage done. Ye will pay the next election.
From the day he took over the so called running of the state there was lie after lie, yes they can claim they brought in equal rights for the lgbt community but let’s give the people of Ireland this credit, we have seen the worst housing crisis, a horrible hospital crisis, motor insurance company calling the shots on pricing cost of living going up peoples wages going down, we can all ad to the list.
Just shows how tough a job it is. Some people really need to manage their expectations. Very happy with where we are now from when he started
@Dark Knight: typical Gaeler very happy with rampant corruption in AGS, very happy a special needs girl was left to be repeatedly raped in a foster home, very happy Dennis “Moriarty Won’t be left in a shelf” O’Brien made millions thanks to  FG, very happy with rampant corruption in AGS. the thanks for our economic isn’t down to the leprechaun economics  of FG but the plan signed between the ffailures and the IMF.
@Dark Knight: Of course you are happy. Rich and well off are we. Fianna Gael are natzi’s/ Ye targeted the most vulnerable in society over the rich. We won’t forget. You and your ilk will pay for turning on the Irish people in favour or money.
@Christopher Gardiner: if you’re going to insult someone. At least learn how to spell the insult. And learn what the source of the insult stood for rather than just flinging it around.
All he cares about is FG and his legacy. Nothing else comes close.
Say goodbye to the old Boss.New Boss will be the same.Deja vu.Status quo.Etc etc.
Basic checklist for a good leader.                                    EndaBrave.                                                                          CowardLoyal.                                                                           Only to his European mastersHonest.                                                                        A liar and not even a good oneLook after the most vulnerable.                              Typical bully he picked on the vunerableCharismatic.                                                               As dull as ditchwater.Intelligent.                                                                    …………………………….
He was caught out lying on a number of occassions on the Dail record plus 90% of the rest of the time he danced around the big questions and dodged taking action on lots of the big issues
@Nigel O’Neill: and terrified of Vincent Browne.
@LITTLEONE:No one need worry that your preferred choice from North of the border will never ever be Taoiseach.Now that Enda has stepped down you and your shinner mates will start knocking and ridiculing the next Taoiseach before he’s even appointed. Don’t forget to have a go at FF and Lab while your at it.Enda was not a great leader but he was Taoiseach if our country and unlike you I respect that office.
@Alan Cooke: Clarification. You mention shinner. Let me put this to you. Thousands here are not shinners and yet we still know Fianna Gael and Kenny were the worst since the foundation of the state. No need to deflect to Sinn Fein. You sound desperate. You know the end is in sight.
He should never be forgiven for his, “The Irish people went stark raving bonkers’ remark when explaining to Europe the crash in the economy. The Crash that was caused by inept politicians like himself.
@The Growler: And he also said we all went mad when he was at Davos. I personally will never forget this. I felt totally and uttely betrayed as someone who worked all their lives and paid my taxes. This was the most treasonous comment any leader even said in public. Imagine if an American President or leader in any other country said this about their citizens. He would be removed immediately, This comment proved to me there and then he was just a puppet for the EU.
@The Growler: and his crockadile tears for the weomen in the Magdalen Laundries.
Another career politician retires with his pensions ,never had to struggle in his life for food ,money ,Belongs to a party where poor health service , suicide , emigration ,low paying jobs ,homelessness are the side effects of his parties policy ,Good riddance
He was our Alexander, our Augustus. The archetype philosopher king: bold, wise, daring, dashing, inspirational. And at least seven feet tall.
@Lorcán Ó Broin: Medication time…..
@Christopher Gardiner: i think Lorcain needs to see somebody quickly -Fine Gael the party who want to see all workers barely above the minimum wage like an army of ants supplying the Queen bees at the top with riches and special privileges.
At a time when we most needed a leader to stand up for our interests, the Troika got the best ally it could imagine. Kenny was always steadfast and brave in taking on the small people, both individually and collectively, but was seldom to be found when we needed to stand up to the big people, unless he was standing beside them. He chose the easier route of imposing further austerity on our people rather than perusing our ” special case” in Europe. We were subsequently informed that we would not be re-capitalised as austerity had been so successful. Given the impact of austerity on this and future generations, this is a gross act of national betrayal. Had Kenny stood up to other interests with the same vigour that he fought his people into submission, his legacy might truly been great.
He should never be forgiven for his, “The Irish people went stark-raving bonkers” remark when explaining the crash in Europe. A crash that was caused by inept politicians like himself.
A vile vermin corporate gov
A complete waste of space, oxygen, and a charlatan. Good riddance to him!!!!!
Kenny the man who said he he would do a report card on each ministers performance every 6months, it never happened, well when I think of Frances Fitzgerald I can see why this was another spoof of his.
Brillunt
He still looks very fresh. He mustn’t have worked long enough. I’m a bit disappointed he wimped out so easily without a fight unlike Charley. Time for more golf Enda. Enjoy.
All for him self
Eh no.
Absolutely not!
Yeah I’m split too. Cant make up my mind whether to describe him as useless, ignorant, cowardly, dishonest, obnoxious, devious, insincere or a complete bull shitter. Him and his 5 point plan and his contract for government lies. He sold out the good people of this country to the banks and our tax masters in Europe. The assets of this country have been stripped bare and given  to his friends and buddies in Nama, Redacted, etc. An absolute disgrace, cheered on by his sidekicks including Noonan, Varadakar, Coveney and Hogan. Scary the amount of corruption and connivery going on at high levels in this country at the moment.
Popular with the wealthy, FG will always be.
Good riddance to this obnoxious man.
That’s an amazing poll result.  Almost half the people in Ireland say he was good?  Wow.  Judging by the negative V positive comments here, the positive feeling towards him is a lot less than 40%. As a leader, he was nowhere to be seen when it mattered. He lied to the electorate on many occasions, particularly in his promises to deal with the bond holders.  And his willingness to throw others under the bus gives a measure of the sort of man he is. Good riddance.
Horrific and abhorrent worst taoiseach in the history Ireland. Had he not stood over the scandals and corruption that didn’t need to happen we’d be singing his praises.
Why do people continually ignore the fact that it was Fianna Fail’s policies of recovery Fine Gael were implementing? Why do people also ignore the fact that after 6 years of blaming Fianna Fail for everything, Fine Gael brought Fianna Fail back into the fold so Enda could complete his personal ambition of becoming the first Fine Gael Taoiseach to serve consecutive terms?We really are a nation of idiots, no wonder the political class take full advantage of our collective stupidity.
@Terry: Get it into your head we don’t ignore it but Enda Kenny outdid them. Get it.
A very good Taoiseach.
@KerryBlueMike: go back to bed Kerry and have a good sleep for yourself.
As a mayo man, I am delighted to see ends go, from water charge, property tax, bin collection, this is what he left us, did not burn the bond holders,
Well his own party colleagues didn’t think he was good enough for the job so there’s your answer.
He was crapp ..he was a yes man for the EEC anybody not notice that …he certainly was not for the people
No, a dreadful taoiseach
Now imagine that. In a Fianna Gael majority contributor site all they squeeze out is forty per cent. Are the Fianna Gael trolls here so trying to say that 60 per cent are so stupid that they  do not appreciate Enda as was suggested?? No. Let me pose another scenario. The 60 per cent are those who have had their lives impacted so badly by Kenny and Fianna Gael that it is impossible to see him as any other than a complete idiot and his government favoured the extremely privileged as insisted by Angela Merkel and the EU masters who kenny bowed down to. Kenny only demonstrated to the Irish people that he was a liar. He broke all his promises and continued the disastrous policies of Fianna Gael and the dictates of the Troika above and beyond the call of duty to the point of even asserting that they would never even ask for a write down for the people of Ireland. He willfully took the debts from the super wealthy and placed it on the Irish people. 70 Billion Euro on the people he said he would protect. Noonan went further and made sure this was enshrined as sovereign debt so that we could never get rid of it. Enda Kenny turned his back on this country and the Irish people in favour of EU elites and he did their bidding to the extreme. Thousands of people in Ireland are suffering and dying directly because of the choices his government made. This country is not back to where it was FOR THE RICH. The Irish people will not forget this. Don’t insult us asking who we want for the next Gael leader You may as well ask who we would like to succeed Hitler for all the good it will do.
I wonder what people’s opinion would be if there hadn’t been 10 years of media bias against him… #justsaying
@Tom the Bomb: That is the biggest most blatant comical lie I have read. RTE and the media were his own private poster boys.
I dont like his politics but one should not underestimate his senior position in the political grouping in Europe that FG and the CDU both belong to. Kenny gave comfort to the Germans that Ireland were team players whether you agree with that or not I think it allowed us some leeway not afforded the likes of Greece.
No
He was a terrible Taoisach
Very poor. Little better than Bertie.
He did a great job….if you are german
H
No he was a brown noser for Merkel & was every bit as bad as FF for appointing his cronies to well paid & powerful positions. No loss to the country. A weak leader
Anyone know what this ” data in wrong format” message means when trying to post here????
@M Bowe: this posts but it seems any criticism of Kenny is ” wrong data”!!!
@M Bowe: The top 300 rich list elites are very happy with Kenny and co. Their combined wealth has increased 69% from €50 billion to €84.4 Billion since 2010.All at a time of severe austerity for everyone else but most disgustingly for the frail, disabled and homeless.
No. A traitor.
Enda and his merry cabinet colleagues missed a great opportunity to be remembered as the government who rewrote the political handbook for Irish Politics.
Pros and cons both ways.  But he had the balls to launch a blistering attack on the Vatican over the Cloyne Report.  For that alone he deserves applause.
He was and he wasn’t. Everything doesn’t have to be black and white.
Yes he was.he can walk away with no scandal on his record so he can!He has done an awful lot to get us out of the horrible mess bertie and his gang got us into.Yeah,we always liked a jack the lad didnt we?And look where it got us.He deserves a good retirement,he earned it.
The devil and Merkel thought he was???
The worst one we ever had
It doesn’t matter who leads fine gael. It doesn’t matter who wins the election. The banks tell the “leadership” what to do.
Yes he was
No a muppet
Fair play to him.  He got the job deep in the recession and stuck at it.
@Stephen Carter:Like a puppet on a string.
@Stephen Carter: Even after getting the German government to do 8 of our budgets and also taking on German debt on top?
@Alois Irlmaier: the German government reviews the budget of every EU Member State.
@Jack Cassady: “A leader is best when people barely know he exists, when his work is done, his aim fulfilled, they will say: we did it ourselves.” Lao Tzu.For the slow learners, this means:If he screws up completely, the naysayers will rightly blame him.If he does a good job, the naysayers will try to deny it was a good job, and point to false data.If he does such a good job that it is completely undeniable that a good job was done, the best the naysayers will be able to come with will be that the good result happened without his intervention, and that someone else did it. By hiding in hypotheticals, the naysayers can gain comfort in their uninformed viewsJack, it’s like this quote was written for you.
@Stephen Carter: That he did. And he made very sure no banker, bondholder, EU blackmailers, failed developers, Dobby, vultures, cronies etc were harmed in the making of the “recovery”.Everyone else were harmed, pauperised, and some were driven to suicide.That’s the reality.
@Stephen Carter: gormless traitor, sold the country out!
@Stephen Carter: He agreed to place debts onto your kids for many years to come, what a legacy.
@Stephen Carter:It is easy as a leader to be popular by buying public sector votes and spending borrowed money on services. That can only be sustained for short periods.When the crash happens, a leader has to step up, make some very hard decisions that he knows will lose votes for his party, but will turn around the economy.Thanks Enda, Fine Gael.No doubt the next govt will be FF, the voters have short memories, already unions sensing the economy is improving, are making the demands to return to 2008, forgetting that the salary levels of 2008 were unsustainable.Let us hope that the next govt dont repeat the mistakes of the recent past.
@David Murphey: But they did ours like a parent who did the childs homework for them. They do review our budgets NOW.
All the corruption inquiries he left behind him,the poverty he forced family’s into,helped by labour party,the majority are grateful the pressure they kept on eventually forced enda Kenny from office.
@@mdmak33: Very dramatic but maybe he just retired?
@@mdmak33: I’m not saying he did a fantastic job but Ireland was in the middle of the worst recession of our era, he didn’t exactly have billions to play around with. Fianna Fail had committed the Irish citizens to paying off the bankers debt and Enda was left with the mess that unfolded. He didn’t do spectacular by any means but I doubt any of the parties would have magically solved our problems during those/these times, all would have forced the charges and cuts on us.
It’s all a “game” to these “big” party politicians, and when their guard is down, they reveal this ugly fact. Attention-seeking Power-junkies is a very dangerous personality type.
One of the best we’ve had.
@Cynical: At?
@Alois Irlmaier: In time we will look back at Enda,s reign, and will still think he’s an idiot.
@Stephen: F.G. F.F. and Liebour will be seen as a bunch of idiots?“We want nothing to do with the backward looking idea of Sovereignty.We remain absolutely committed to the ideals of the European Union.We see the Union for what it is, the most successful international organisation in world history.” Michael Martin Dail 11/05/17
@Alois Irlmaier: whatever you think of the politicians the EU has been fantastic for Ireland. We have gained so much
@Cynical: one of the best what?
@Dave O Keeffe: Says the West Cork Fisherman………. Not! I agree tho Dave EU has been great for the nation.
@Cynical: True… But not much competition in recent years anyway.
@Cynical: one if the best? If that is true then Ireland is compketely fuc*ed
despite whatever various persons feel about him and political sides, ultimately he will he judged by the economy he inherited and the economy he left with. Not a shabby tenure.
@danny: Yup he inherited a right mess economically, I know ppl complain and te problems we have still but its mainly a hangover of what the FF gov. mess. It will take time to fix another 5 years min, however on political reform and institutional accountability he promised but nothing was achieved, too long in the tooth I think too many yrs in the dail and too conservative. I have to admit I could never stand to hear him talk he always sounded like a school teacher. He was a better Taoiseach than I thought he would be, I think in history he will be remembered for the turnaround in the economy the rest and bad of his tenure will fade away most likely.
@danny: Economies travel in cycles regardless of what the government does so I wouldn’t give too much credit!
Seven consultants just shed a tear.
@Jack Cassady: “Let the games begin” that says it all, it’s all just a big game to them, they’re just playing with people’s lives, livelihoods and homes like they’re playing government monopoly.
Wounder what his next stop will be on the gravey train.
@Francid Dooley: Merkel’s Secret garden, she needs someone in the EU to trim her bush…
Anywhere else this numpty would’ve remained a teacher.lucky escape for a lot of kids
@Christy Bollard: at least you don’t have to be an ex-Eton Oxbridge graduate. I can see how serving the needs of children and the wider community can prepare you for a life of public service
Hopefully the new leadership contest will rip the heart out of the party and Fine Gael will explode from a severe case of political ebola.
@Jack Cassady: Who will you vote for Jack?
Adams even used this to score political points – ‘came in with a crisis & went out with a crisis’. What will they say about you Gerry ? Will they be as nice about you as they were about Martin?
Gone,,, Like a scalded cat ;-)
Hopefully, he’ll take his beloved Mary Louise O’Waffler with him
A great leader and an inspiration to the nation – if only we ever found one of them.
And the beatification of Saint Enda of the 99 pensions has started.
On your bike muppet
@Dave O Keeffe: Saddle sores for everyone now…
“Mind if I go and cash in my pensions”Evil smirk emoji
Sure he was heading to the pub to meet the man with two pints…..
Did I read somewhere that he’d renounced his lump sum and pension from his long teaching career(4 yrs)..thought not..
@Kieran OKeeffe:https://www.google.ie/amp/s/www.irishtimes.com/news/fine-gael-leader-vows-not-to-take-teacher-s-pension-1.577701%3Fmode%3Damp
This is nothing more than FG spin. Ignoring all the crisis and protests and dysfunctional economy, claiming themselves a big success regardless, RTE unfortunately adding to the spin, making it somehow dramatic. Unfortunately some people are being fooled by it.
History is not going to be kind to Kenny.  He did take over in the greatest financial crisis in the Republic’s history, but how he and his government went about dealing with that was neither competent enough, fair enough or transparent enough.  Kenny’s legacy would have been relatively better the shorter the length of his being Taoiseach.  He leaves up to his eyes in controversies, with a leadership campaign going on in full public view for several months in FG, FG’s frontbench looking increasingly threadbare and his government propped up by FF in a way that makes a mockery of the supposed Dail parliamentary system.
“It is morally wrong, unjust and unfair to tax a persons home”- Enda Kenny, 1994
Enda an era.
History will judge enda .under his leadership  7,000 irish citizen s became homeless 2;000.of them are children. He said he would  end hospital waiting lists and people on trolleys instead the health serve has gotten a lot  worse. 2 yrs to see a specialist. More people  employed .more people  were forced to emergrate or on scheme s .gardai .scandals water charges .he started so well telling  off the church about  sex abuse he inherited a bankrupt state  but he brought people to there knees in order to  look good to his good friends in Europe..enda in his ivory ….
No doubt ML O’Donnell will be on the RTE airwaves and anywhere prepared to entertain her in the coming days with her stomach-churning waffle about her beloved leader, how he plucked her from nowhere like a prince choosing his princess.
The Enda Days, a Doomsday film by FG.
I think its quite clear that some of these “emotional” tds might need some medical help they’re so deluded about the state of the country.
In fairness Enda was the leader through the biggest economic crisis of the history of the state, Shane on Gerry Adams trying to score political points about the very crisis created by lazy bankers and people living on credit cards when him and Mary Lou fly to New York first class to collect cheques from Donald Trump (90s) and the big wigs in the US.
Is it a bird, is it a plane… NO! It’s Enda leaving lol.
Will be best remembered for his reign over corruption, cronyism ,made the rich super Rich crushed the less well off and sold us out
What a deluded bunch! It’s like keep all the crisis and protests out of minds and we’ll claim ourselves a big success.
In all fairness it’s the Eu pulling the strings, coveney or varadkar will not be much better.
Don’t worry enda there’s a good job waiting for you in Brussels you useless piece of crap
Seeing this moron leave makes me feel like I’ve taken a massive dump after years of constipation. #endathenightmare
@Graham Gilligan: graham, thats the quote of the year! I know exactly what you mean.
Edna the accidental leader of our country,The country pumpkin village idiot type like so many other TD that inherited their seat from daddy. A man untill recently held on to his teaching job, In affect blocking someone who wants to teach from gaining a full time job just like many other TD. While a jnr minister who also drawed down on the ministers pension while also collecting a TD wage, A man who refused to do interviews with certain media personal, Someone that mumbles and cannot speak coherent that they use a certain comms company chairperson son for speaking lessons. Then the army out on the street protecting the ATM and lads with 2 pints in their hand.
@Dave Byrne: the ATM debacle. All that had to be done by the banks was to turn off the ATMs. What a bullshitter
I suppose he will be on Vincent Brownes programme sometime soon, hope he brings his famous earpiece, someone has to tell the muppet what to say…….ah only a dream though. You have more chance of getting knocked down by a submarine whilst crossing the road than Kenny and Vincent being in the same room.Coward!
Good riddance. He didn’t do his queen Elizabeth wave. Haha
I sent Enda a list of Garda harassment/wrongdoing that spread over some thirty years. He passed it on to Justice Dept and in turn, they passed it to the Garda Commissioner. I’m disappointed that Enda didn’t solve this himself before resigning. He should have done as he was the Taoiseach…He did though get me a handshake apology from the Garda and I do appreciate that.
I wish him well.On balance, a good servant to the country.
@Gagsy 99: It’s getting harder to detect sarcasm on here lately.
@Gagsy 99:Genuine comment.I have a lot of respect for him.(Not an FG supporter in general).
@Gagsy 99: On balance The country was a good servant to him.
@Gagsy 99: I think he did a good job too considering. Was always going to be hard to take up the roll after the way FF/Greens left the country. On reflection he didn’t do too bad
@Gagsy 99: As a middle income earning , no child having family renting trying to buy Irish person, He done F@ck all for me.
@Gagsy 99: I didn’t expect him to go straight away
@Gagsy 99: he got into power on his promise to burn the bondholders, and then done a monumental U turn on the subject, a sevant to greed, not the country.
@Rob Cahill: Do you want him to buy you a house?
@DM: sounds like he is trying to buy a human.
@Rob Cahill: exactly.Enda don’t let the door hit your arse on the way out.Thank God at last. What will Angela do now without her puppet
What is this a weird version of ‘don’t speak ill of the dead’ he is gone/going now, don’t say anything against him.
Apparently hopping from one scandal to another for the past 6 years constitutes doing a good job. Short memories or deliberate amnesia.
@Rob Cahill: By the looks of it you’re pretty much illiterate. Seems like the only person you should blame is yourself.
@Declan Doyle: merkel’s found her new toy boy to lick her ar*e. C’est le monsieur macron, non?
@Gagsy 99: You are totally deluded.
@Gagsy 99: He did F*ck all for thousands in this country especially the poorest and sick and vulnerable. A useless parasite.
@Maurice Bourke: Was thinking that exact thing!! Next it’ll be “ah he wasnt a bad ol skin”
@Christopher Gardiner:  Everyone’s entitled to their opinion on his performance. Personally I’m not sure anyone in the position he took in 2011 could have done anything else. He’s not everyone’s cup of tea, but we’ve had far worse in the past.Despite what you say, history will be very kind to Enda Kenny.
@Greg Cavey: true.What will our new taoiseach response be ?Probably more of the sameSee FG supporters are on in here en masse.Must have been sent to out!
@Gagsy 99: Opposite to you I don’t have children nor am I renting but I am delighted to see the traitor gone but his fellow parasites in The Dail will be delighted that they won’t be able to do a tip of work until this fiasco is over and the  new leech is unveiled
@Gagsy 99: Really. Sponged of the Irish people for the last 42 years after taking the seat from his father.
@Declan Doyle: dont you worry there will be another puppet replace him
@Gagsy 99: There will be tears flowing in Berlin tonight.
@Gagsy 99: A good servant to some, but for ordinary people a disaster. Him, and both governments he presided over has destroyed society in the country. A waffler, unable to string two unscripted words together. A fantasist, liar, the greatest kicker of cans the country has ever seen. Favoured banks, corporations and vulture funds over the needs of the citizens. Imposed draconian austerity measures on the poorest and most vulnerable to pay off a debt that was never theirs. The blood of suicide victims of bank greed on his hands. Made living conditions untenable for very many people,  reduced wages and working conditions. He presided over the biggest housing and rent crisis seen in the country. The near collapse of the public health service. Tried to privatise the water resource and slandered all those who dared point out the fact that water has, was and is paid for. Choose to do nothing about the Moriarity report. Refuses to accept that the Gardai are out of control.That’s a good servant?????
@Gagsy 99: Good riddance to him biggest majority in the history of this state and did nothing with it…..
@Dave Doyle: Well put sir.
@Paul O Mahony: exactly Paul…Unfortunately
@Dara Smith: absolutely delighted to see the back of him. Nothing more than a European yes man that looked after his cronies…still backs a police commissioner that should never have been put in place. His boot licking to the church and to vested interests was repulsive. That heave a few years ago should have dumped him out.He has split public sector and private sector and pitted them against each other. A blue shirt Thatcherite to his core…he’ll be in the same hall of shame as Cowan and Aherne …good riddance.
@Gagsy 99: it was the irish worker who got this country out of a mess and will for the next 45 yrs, remember it was kenny who said i will get rid of ministers not up to the job after a year, who he did get rid off  he made sure the got a nice earner with the EU and seanead, oh yes the porkies i met a fellow at the bar,……., i got a call from a worker…….., he was a spoofer who should have been gone years ago, he simply got the job because no one else wanted it also because of his fathers seat who left it for him.
@Dave Doyle: couldn’t agree any more! He’s a disgrace & I’m delighted he’s going. Pity it wasn’t sooner.
@Rob Cahill: do something for yourself, go out and make more money and stop blaming others
@Stephen Finn: so enda got us into the mess but the workers got us out?? Blame him for all the bad and none of the good!! Grand so
@Gagsy 99: i couldnt wait for the midnite deadline was sure he was goin to cahnge his mind
@Gagsy 99: i dont rem him kicking up a stink with all the FF corruption goin on does anyone ?  One would be inclined to think that he gave FF as much rope as possible so that he & his fellow fascists could come to the rescue
@ dave doyle well said
Personally think he did a good job considering the state of the country when he took over in 2011.
@Do the Bort man: the bar was set VERY low – FF/Greens left the country bankrupt and under troika control. Kenny was merely the front-man for the policies the troika put as conditions for the bailout.
@Do the Bort man: But roll the clock back to 2007, and we all (myself included) thought Bertie could do no wrong.
@Do the Bort man: Enda only got in because FF made such a mess, and only stayed in because he surrounded himself with loyal supporters who only got their jobs because of their loyalty – not their suitability or skill.  He only got to be a TD because his daddy held the seat previously.
@Do the Bort man: you for real all he done was make the working man pay he personally or any of those so called representatives of the people done nothing but take from the poor and give to the rich only hard choice those Muppets made was to defer their pay raises a few months until it was more palatable to the zombies living in this country good riddance to this gombeen of a man that robbed his country to pay Europe
@Do the Bort man: he will be remembered as the taoiseach who brought in more taxes and charges on the Irish people then any other taoisach in the history of the state, he even abolished the death grant for people who couldn’t afford to bury their loved ones!
@Liam O Connor: Any Taoiseach that took over in 2011 was going to increase taxes, and reduce spending.
@Do the Bort man: he had plenty of advisers & helpers so much so that he wasnt good at making decisions
Our selection of politicians over a long period of time has been abysmal. Haughey, Ahern, Cowen, Burke, Kenny etc. etc.Largely because we continue to vote for civil war parties, based on dated principles and policies.
@Fank Pulman: couldn’t agree more.
@Fank Pulman: Then we tell the US that Trump was a bad idea. And the UK, that Brexit was wrong. Blaming everyone but ourselves for our virtual bankruptcy – the EU, UK, World Bank etc. Saddest of all is that we are incapable of electing  decent  politicians – only crooks and ineptitudes…
@Fank Pulman: our choice of politician is abysmal because we tend to think of the immediate future for ourselves rather than the long term future of Ireland. And as long as we continue not to think beyond  ‘what’s in it for me?’  then we will continue to get the calibre of politician that we deserve.
@Fank Pulman: Easy to see that the Jounal is a Fianna Gael online news source.
And not a moment too soon. Finally we’ll be rid of this useless, waste of space jerk.
@Adrian: is what’s coming after him any better though?
@Jane Dwyer: nope. Either the middle management office worker (coveney) or the James bond fantasist tool (varadkar). Richard Bruton is probably a better option than those two.
@Adrian:This is great news.  Now we can shout at the next waste of space.  You clown you.
@Adrian: I’d like to see Leo have a crack at it. I think he’s more genuine than Covney
@Adrian: great comment and description. Would totally take Richard Bruton over the two pretenders.
@Adrian: Out of pure interest, Who do you think should be Taoiseach?
@Adrian: so tell who will do a good job.
Unlike kenny and noonan, someone who isn’t fooled by the EU scaremongering and who will stand up and oppose them in the best interests of the Irish people when it’s needed. Admittedly, while finding someone to do a good job is hard, you’d find plenty who could have done a better job. Kenny was very weak. The EU used and abused him. I mentioned above Bruton is my preference of what’s currently available.
Trichet telling Kenny ireland would be ruined if ireland didn’t comply with the EU was totally unacceptable, but even after 35 years in the dail at that time, he still fell for it, he was piss weak. If he was still that nieve after 35 years as a td in the dail, it was painful seeing him as taoiseach.
When will he be taking up his position in the EU?
@George Roche: Ahh George, don’t be so cynical.September 25th.
Glad to see the back of him, what a let down
@tally ho: I have to ask, what did you expect?  This was a man who somehow contrived to lose a televised debate to Bertie Ahern.  The policies he implemented weren’t even his policies – they were handed to him by the Troika.If you’re kind you can say that Kenny understood it was a good plan and just got on with it.  If you’re unkind, then he’s a bumbler with no ambition and no original thoughts.  Either way, I quite like that in a politician.  It’s a welcome change from the ones who want to save the world, end up making it worse and can’t resist micromeddling with our lives.
@tally ho: time will be kind to him, did a good job
It hardly matters.The new guy will be from same Fine Gael gene pool .Need a rethink of politics – bring in new people.Time to have a clear out
@EUGENE 70 percent:  PURGE! lets set up gulags in Roscommon.
Long overdue. Good riddance. One less  Waffler.
The man has the charisma of a goldfish. Good riddance.
Bye don’t let the door hit you on the way out.
Not liking all the hate here. People forget he took over from an absolute mess. Enjoy your retirement Enda
And what did he do? Only create a bigger mess…stop boy…
@Sean Kelleher: we’re still paying for it
@stephen devlin thats for sure….
“Only created a bigger mess”.Have you guys forgotten about the recession already? And the 7.7% economic growth over the last two years?If you think the situation is worse after Kenny than before him it’s only because you don’t understand the situation well enough,
@Eamon: He is a tool.
@JayK: you will get nowhere here with the truth. People have very very short memories.
Maybe please God whoever takes over will dump that smug but TOTAL waste of space Fitzgerald in the spectacularly misnamed ‘Justice’ department and even more important, sack liar in Chief Commissioner O’Sullivan so there might be a chance of real desperately needed change in the above all laws Gardai!
@Gerry Carroll: sack them dopes
Should a General Election not be called. Anyone who voted FG last time also voted for the the country to be led by Kenny.I’m very uncomfortable with this transfer of power.
@Keelan O’neill: you don’t vote for a leader, you vote for your local td who as a group select the leader, you shouldnt comment on politics if you can’t even grasp this simple concept
It doesn’t really matter, which party or which leader, the nests will continue to be feathered!
@Terry: ah Les Behan has had an identity change. Didn’t like his old self?I understand.
The accidental taoiseach who inherited a financial mess from his predecessor along with a ready made plan to fix it, who tackled all the difficult decisions by kicking them down the road for someone else to fix them, who tried to privatize the water infrastructure through the back door and failed miserably, who has presided over the biggest housing and homeless crisis in the history of the state and did nothing to solve it and who’s only goal for the current Dail is to be the longest serving Fine Gael taoiseach.Slow clap for Enda. Now F**** off and enjoy your pensions!
Absolutely
About time. Now for the rest of the muppets in fg to go!
He kept in the universal social charge for us all to pay…and bankers,builders are all back at it again…Good man enda ….walk away and hide in shame somewhere in europe!!
@Damien McGrath: He should crawl back under the rock he came out of and take that slug O’Donnell with him. She’s a senile hag.
@Damien McGrath: well said
Lord lantern lamb living …. What an over excited reaction to Enda Kenny stepping down.  It does not matter. It does not matter if Loose lips Leo or Simon get the job, all of Fine Gael need to go.
Thank God for that. he over stayed his welcome
Whats his legacy??he did nothing for his own county,castlebar is nearly closed down…
@Damien McGrath: the ‘what’s in it for me’ brigade.
@Damien McGrath: maybe you want a Healy-Rae?
Why is he giving a Nazi salute?
@Anthony Whelan: Because FG are a Facist party, led by the Feuhrer himself Heil Kenny.
@Anthony Whelan: sticking with fine gael fasist  past
@Richard Doherty: Thats true they did assist Franco. Still theres only one party I’m aware of that had their 2nd in command at a Nazi collaborator celebration in Fairview.
@Just Me: you really don’t know what fascism is do you??
A snake in a party of snakes. One of the dumbest politicians out there and that says a lot. What kind of idiot calls his own constituents all ireland whingers? This guy was an embarassment. Water charges, homeless crisis, health service is a shambles, the gadai are a mess yet he stands by the commissioner. The list is endless and ge overseen it all. Yeah he was a great servant alright!!!!
@Derek Lyster: I agree with u Derek. Its because of the hard work of the Irish citizens that the economy is recovering. The policies of FG have had a neutral effect in this recovery. I’m glad Kenny is going but regardless of who wins the leadership election I will not vote FG anytime soon.
@Derek Lyster: What neutral. They made it a hundred times worse and thwarted any hope of a recovery.
Good riddance. W@nker
Good riddance. He ran Ireland for a minority which profited at the expense of the poor and the sick. Should take the rest of his lousy party with him.
All the best Enda. In time u will be remembered as our best taoiseach.always put the country first , which could not be said for previous governments..
@Morgan Crowe: you cannot actually be serious
@Morgan Crowe: Delusion or Sarcasm, surely one or the other
Leo or Simon? Much of the same
Like Fergie leaving United…. NOT.
@OnTheOutside: to he got us out of the recession fair play to him
Don’t know what people expected. I think he did a decent job, considering the mess the country was in. Was he perfect, no, and he made gaffs. People treated it like a popularity contest. He was easy to dislike, and it became easy to slag him off at every opportunity despite the obvious difficulty of the job. Rather an effective leader rather than a likeable/popular one (never liked him myself incidentally). All signs point to the country recovering (tax take, unemployment), lots of things to be sorted yet (housing, healthcare), but we’re on the road, and i think history will be kind to him. Can’t have been easy dedicating his life to public office only to be chewed on all the time. I’d like to believe he was trying to fix things, not a sociopath going out of his way to make things worse
@Andrew Taz Donohoe: Look don’t waste your time talking sh*t. He was a disaster.
@Christopher Gardiner: Did he do something personal to you? What are your issues exactly.  You’re replying the same thing to every comment that doesn’t align to your way of thinking.
Hip hip hooray..
Great job. Made the best of a bad situation.Wish him well.
@Daniel Carson: Deluded!
Fair play Enda. Considering where we were in 2011 as a result of FF populism, and comparing to where we are now, you can very much hold your head high. To heck with the begrudgers.
@Fred Jensen: He should be executed for the traitor he is and people like you should be flogged.
@Fred Jensen: ah the exact same comment is just above this i see the paid FG trolls out again
@Christopher Gardiner: What an enlightened individual. You’re proof that not everyone should have a say in how the country is run. It’s lamentable that a vote from someone like yourself is valued the same as someone with some intelligence.
I can only comment on the promises he made prior to being elected. He promised amongst other things that patients on trollies would end if he got elected. He was there for years and it never happened.Sure he might br a nice guy, but he failed the people of Ireland. He did not commit.
About time . “Leader” though? Hahahahaha
Good riddance to bad rubbish one of the worst of all time , unfortunately his replacement will be from the same stock, jobs for the boys with their snouts in the trough and those who follow the gravy train
The top 300 on rich list have a lot to thank Enid for, a massive 69% hike in their combined wealth since 2010 up from just shy of €50 billion to €84.4 BILLION. While just about everyone else had Tory style Austerity imposed upon then ‘ for the good of the country’. Ie those 300!!!!!
If lying was a job, this man would have more money then Trump!
Did a good job, big shoes to fill.
@Free comment ratings: What, Big toilet to fill you mean.
Free comment. Big pockets to fill. Like the rest of the what’s in it for me party that is FG.
Varadker has described himself as ‘pro-life’, Coveney has said he is ‘not comfortable’ with the Citizen’s Assembly’s recommendations on repealing the eighth…  let’s not get too excited, they’re all as useless as each other.
That’s the end-a Enda!
Woohoo
Great job. Made the best of a bad situation.Wish him well.
@Daniel Carson: He is the worst leader this country ever had the misfortune to have,
@Christopher Gardiner: its  hard to believe anyone could be as useless as Ahern/Cowen but somehow Kenny has managed it
Short memories lads.
Amen
So long – won’t be missed by 75% that voted in last election.
Off to Magaluf for the summer? Great timing.
Another politician who spend a lifetime with his snout in the trough ,Had imaginary conversations  with imaginary people . Health service is worse .homelessness  is at a all time high .The courts are filled with eviction cases . Garda management have been shown to be a bunch of liars and corrupt . Yes great work Enda now toddle of to Europe and get more pensions .
What a numpty. Good riddance. Should have been cast out long ago.
Where can we vote to have his pension refused? He doesn’t deserve anything more than a normal state pension.
So what….
Prosecutions on the findings of the Moriarty tribunal need to be insisted upon by the next leader.And Fianna Fail need to confirm that they will withdraw as the junior partner of this coalition government unless this happens.
Black armbands over the blue shirts in the Fraperoom tonight.
Leo and Simon are on the bowl shittin themselves.
RTE are delighted. They have something to report on. Their King is dead.
It’s amazing how I have an awful longing to go for a drive with the family beeping my horn,  waving Irish flags and whooping & hollering!
Bye Felicia…
Expert in gravytrain political careerism.Good  riddance to his lies and deceipt.
Good
Thumbs up ;)
Great news enda crilly is gone.
@Damo_Greene: You mean Enda Curley
IS HE REALLY GOING?  IF SO, GOOD RIDDANCE.
Don’t get over exited lads, he will probably turn up in Brussels soon with another nice fat pensionable job.
Good riddance. Now fu#k off to the ginger man and have a pint
So, who are we going to slag now?
@Jack Cassady: Varadkar or Coveney
@Jack Cassady: either Bilderberg Boy or the D4 media darling, neither can save FG from a good kicking in the next general election.
Good old Leo. The man has a talent for speaking out of both sides of his mouth. He seems to have forgotten about the heave he lead against Enda just before they got into government. Leo has more faces than the many faced god.
Fantastic news
Thank god for thatLong long overdue,  but oh, the headbangers are still in charge. Nothing new here , keep walking,,
It spainful listening to that Licker Sharon Nee Vo Lawn or whatever kind of backward name she has. She is wetting Her Knic*ers lavishing gratulations on him.
@Christopher Gardiner: Her name is Irish, you simpleton.
Stay or go, it makes no difference, FF or FG, it makes no difference, we are tied to austerity for years to come, all any leader or any party with such a rotten package is tie a nice bow on it and hope nobody looks inside.
The misery he put on people will never be forgiven. He lied his way to the office of Taoiseach and look at the mess he leaves behind. It will take years to correct the housing problems.
When you see what a country like Iceland did to get themselves back on track, that makes me wonder why people on here ask, what could he have done better? He wasn’t that bad. He could have done everything better. Spineless Governing.
Bad taoiseach.so many scandals,cover ups.brought the country down a bad road.
Good riddance to the old crook.Merkel will have to find a new lapdog.i hope he chokes on his 5 pensions
Im missing Room to Improve because of this.
Hurrayyyyyy. I think i will have beer tonight to celebrate.
Enda Kenny was very good to and for the Fine Gael Party.He was bad to and for the rest of us.
@Tony Daly:  Same as all politicians really.
And so, the real recovery begins although it will take us a helluva long time. At least this plonker is gone. The choices, Simon ‘I did nothing about the homeless’ and Leo ‘ Shop everybody and I have something to say about everything’ aren’t much of a choice. Be better to have an election and let the people decide.
Sad, Fine Gael have just Short themselves in the Foot!
@Maire: They were aiming for the head though.
And I see that useless Marie Louise A*se licker for Enda was there. he keeps all his snakes around him hissing together. She is Fuc*ing useless.
@Christopher Gardiner: Lol, check out this nutter
Good riddance, he was a complete bollox.
Let the games begin . If he said that I feel sick
Ireland needs a Macron now, politics so stale here
@Niall Finnegan: Coveney is the closes thing to Macron but more Goldman Sachs than Rothchilds?
Paul Murphy has the kind of face that screams out: “Bully me bully me!!!”. What a vomit inducing champagne socialist … Lock him up, lock him up.
Ummm, Ummm (sharp intake of breath), Ummm, Ummm, (sharp intake of breath)……… No, can’t say I’ll miss that.
Way over duePity the Richard Briton rising a few years back didn’t succeed
Now if only Noonan would F*ck off with him.
Bring Back Bertie
@SYM-Metal: for public execution?
@SYM-Metal: Has he died?
Goodbye to ba
The only one worse to lead this government would be Simon Coveney  , who is so disliked by his own county that he barely scrapped in as a TD on the last count . His was given the job as Minister for Housing  and so far has made matters worse
Good riddance traitor.
Goodbye to bad rubbish. A traitor to his countrymen. Lined the pockets of his powerful friends and sold the rest of us down the river. Rot in hell Edna
Good f-cking ridence ..
Bondholders bitch
Dint worry enda nice fat pension you wont have to wait till your 68
How many pensions ?
@Tony Hartigan:I’m trying to add them up !
Now  sort out the corrupt police force.
Yeah, delighted he is gone.BUT unfortunately he is not gone,He is merely gone away to count his bonus, goodbye money and multiple pensionsAND THEN returns to the Dáil to do his usual S>F>Aas an ordinary FG TD
Wish we had Madam Guillotine outside Leinster house ,would be great cheers as each useless politician was put under the mighty blade , would need extra sharp blade for some of the necks ,and no worries about paying pensions .for decades to come .
The King is dead (departed); long live the Queen (in waiting)!
Fair play to him ,  lots of his predecessors stuffed their pockets  before leaving that job,  Ahh! he might have stuffed his pockets a little and  emptied mine a lot.  and what replaces him two guys  who want water charges despite the majority no wanting them, backed the bail-out,   want to gift wrap 13 billion and send it back to apple………leave me alone
Enda Kenny did the right thing.
@Just Some Guy: In the end?
watching the politicians crying over kenny FG but as we know dont live in the real world and how great he was, this guy abused a man when he was tackled in a SC about his kids leaving the country he told the guy go home and have a shave and clean yourself up and all the porkies he told ahh yes thats kenny now piss of back to the west, or the EU nice earner lined up for that, any chance that the gay marriage is not mentioned over the coming months there is more important things to be done is this banna republic
Too little too late !!
He was a fried of privilege, wealth and power. He ably served vested interests.He leaves Health, education, housing and social policy in a mess.Under his stewardship, the wealthy got much wealthier and the poor and low paid became more disadvantaged.
@Tony Daly: Yet you won’t see anyone in the media saying anything like that. It’s all about the arse kissing.
@Terry: I haven’t seen this much eulogising on RTE  since Mandela died… and even then they brought up the not so nice bits of his past…
A lot of short memories on here or very young people. Inherited an absolute mess from FF.
@Donnacha Bhoicaire: “A lot of short memories”He implemented Fianna Fail’s policies of “recovery”. Brought Fianna Fail back into the fold as their coalition partners. Yes Donnacha you do have a short memory.
@Terry: Not to mention he basically cheered on FF policies that led to the clusterfuсk in the first place…
@Tony Daly: some harsh critics around here. You’d think Ireland is not one of the best countries to live in as described by many publications, studies, organisations…would love to see the “moany-brigade” survive in less salubrious circumstances! Irish people are just spoiled.
@Davin Ryan: Both Fine Gael and Labour in opposition criticised Fianna Fail for not spending more at the time.
@Gavin Scott: Ya a bunch of moaners. Imagine wanting a decent health service, homes to live in, and some accountability/responsibility from those in positions of power and influence. Just because there are worse places to live, that doesn’t mean we can’t demand more, when more is possible.
@Gavin Scott: what about the issues I referred to?It is a good country to be weakthy in even if you are a tax exile.It is a good country to be a tax avoiding MNC .
@Terry: why the name change Les Behan?
@Tom Burke: My account was blocked, for some reason , no explanation?
@Tony Daly: haha do you comment now for your day job.Yes that evil Enda, took over with 15% unemployment and leaves office with 6% unemployment. What an arse he is indeed!
@Tony Daly:  once upon a time a drunk called Edna , who gathers his children, his wife and his parents, asks them for all their money (knowing they haven’t a lot) says he is going to invest it wisely. Goes to the pub drinks with the big shots, spending like there is no tomorrow, shoots the bar, tells stories about the four way he had with Naomi Campbell, Kate moss and somebody called Angela. When he goes to the jacks everybody busts out laughing, at this utter moron. They then decide to offer him a job because he will do what he’s told. His family are left with nothing, and he lives happily ever after
@Donnacha Bhoicaire: and made it worse
@Mick Micky: less unemployment during Kenny’s tenure because thousands of our best young people had to emigrate and most will never come back….
@Tony Daly: Doesn’t take a strong leader to get the german government to do 8 of our budgets or to take on German debt as our own?
@Terry: Did SF propose spending cuts at the time. Just wondering the basis for your selection.
@Michael Doyle: Ah I see what you did there. I must be a Shinner judging by the content of my comments…..Grow up!
A former British PM and a regional First Minster of 1 region of the UK are they only ‘international’ leaders quoted. Says it all…
@James O’Grady: Pyonyang spokesman announces Great Leader Kim Jong Un has issued statement (after some prompting)..“All praise to Enda Kenny may he hammer his enemies..who is he?
@James O’Grady: The Enda Days and Enda is no Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger either lol.
Austerity is for the little people.
@Tony Daly: for the workshy you mean. The ones who contribute nothing.
@Sean Ryan: not even the workshy! Enda introduced nothing to make them contribute to society for their fecklessnessShows you how far the scrounger class has come on in influence
@Tony Daly: Q.E. is for the banks and the EU is for US banks and buy out scenarios or the raping of a countries assets is for the IMF.
did any of them suffer austerity during his term?
All the politicians saying how great he was. Sickening.
@Martin Flood: sickening how little they are praising him maybe. Greatest politician of his generation.
@Negan: ” Greatest politician of his generation.”Deluded much? :-)
@Negan: This should be played at his send off…https://youtu.be/523FLk2126g
@Negan: lmao
@Terry: that’s the sum total of your argument…underwhelming !
@Boganity: Well if you are basing it on just that one comment. Underwhelming would be your whole contribution to this thread.
@Martin Flood:Just brilliant, not even one promise kept
@Martin Flood: Cut from the same cloth, that is why and that is why nothing will ever change in the main parties?
@Martin Flood: he asked for two terms of office to fulfill those promises, so far he is only half way through and so far he has done astronomical work to lift this country out of crippling economic depression.
We all partied according to Enda.
@Tony Daly: Joan even said if a person could pay 600 euro a year for a new mobile then they can pay that for water charges.An example how T.D’s. are not with reality at all.
@Alois Irlmaier: well it’s true though.
He destroyed family’s lives,do not praise such a person or you make it acceptable.
@@mdmak33: grow a spine you drama queen.
@Sean Ryan: You know he is right, austerity destroyed jobs and it attacked the PESTEL Model that created the right conditiond for employers to stay and set up here.They even advertised businesses to leave here to go to China…https://www.dfa.ie/news-and-media/speeches/speeches-archive/2015/july/min-urges-businesses-to-seek-asia-opportunities/http://web.archive.org/web/20120711071849/http://www.gaa.ie/gaa-news-and-videos/daily-news/1/0607121657-croke-parkto-host-asia-pacific-ireland-business-forum/
@@mdmak33: Fianna Fail’s awful economic management destroyed people’s lives. He picked up the pieces. I’m far from his biggest fan but it’s moronic to take FG’s economic policies in a vacuum and ignore the state of the country at the time.
did any of the suffer austerity during his term?
@Dáithí Ó Raghallaigh: I got a rash(er) from it lol. Bad joke.
Well if your a big enough g@*sh*#e to pick up the tab for the European banking collapse, and pass it back onto your own taxpayers, then unsurprisingly your bound to be popular! I have heard that quislings are often applauded in public and sneered in private by their new masters!
@Jarlath Murphy:It was the Irish banks which the Irish people bailed out. Typical anti everything attitude to get the basic facts incorrect
@Nick Allen: the purpose of bailing out the Irish banks was to prevent contagion to the European banks. Bailing out the Irish banks stopped a run on the European banks. Interbank lending was protected.
Tony unfortunately the FG acolytes and the likes of Nick have their alternative truths to rehash, to try gloss over the stewardship they inflicted on the country. Proudly declaring to their double amputee victim that they have saved them from the discomfort of ingrown toenails and laid the groundwork of ensuring they won’t be afflicted by it again, by removing both feet!
@Jarlath Murphy: too true!
@Jarlath Murphy:Although u may not like the facts but it was the Irish banks we bailed out and it was for the benefit of the Irish economy. Also it was FF and not Fg that did it. But hey, why use facts when you can post hyperbole
@Nick Allen: the Irish Banks were bailed out for the benefit of HNW depositors and so as to pay Bank bondholders and EU bank lenders.
@Nick Allen: ” Also it was FF and not Fg that did it. But hey, why use facts when you can post hyperbole”You seem to have forgotten that FG called for more reckless spending and criticised Fianna Fail for not spending more.
Nick we bailed out the banks for the benefit of the Irish Economy, really? So Enda got the FF promissory notes gifted by FF and turned it into Sovereign debt, while declaring we are where we are! Hyperbole much? And what about the Irish society which suffered the consequences? Check out the debt clock 200 Billions and counting! Your grandchildren will be paying off those odious debts foisted on the backs of the people by the banksters! Hyperbole? Try listening to the Eulogising of St Enda on the news and Primetime, it’s only a matter of time before we hear about the miracles!
@Jarlath Murphy:Although you may get caught up in the tabloid press the debt we were bailed out for was Irish debt and as such we need to repay our debt. Of course you may be one of the many who feels an entitlement not to pay for utilities or debt but the facts are the facts and no matter how much you try to change them to suit your argument the bottom line is we must repay the money we borrowed.
Haha. Strong leader my foot! It was when Merkel or the EU said “jump”, kenny said “how high”. Then it was “stop whinging and take your medicine” to the Irish.
@Adrian: Only the workshy layabouts had to take any medicine. And it didn’t go far enough. But no, let people working their tails off pay for everything. No excuses not to get ahead in Ireland now. Don’t like your pay? Get a different job, upskill, get further education. No excuses.
@Sean Ryan: no jobs either outside the cities, you should try and get out more
An enemy of the republic.
In my best french accent…..“Surely this funny man ad de most rubbable ed I have ever known….”
@The Risen: he was the cutest Irish pixie ever.
@The Risen: The Anti-Leprechaun with his pot od sh…
Enda Kenny is fg longest serving Langer.
@@mdmak33: If he was first elected in 1975 with him being an exteacher and then politician… Then why did he never hear of any child abuse stories during those years, I just keep on thinking that everytime I see T.D’s in the Dail?
The Irish, as ever, ashamed of themselves and their achievements.What a miserable little island of begrudgers
@alphanautica: And sure didn’t we put the biggest begrudger of the lot in charge. Begrudges the poorest of us a living, Begrudges our children an education, Begrudges our elderly their health care and the list goes on.
@Cian Keogh: this is one of the most generous welfare states on the planet. where are you planning on moving to?
@alphanautica: Another poor deluded soul. There seems to be a lot of it about.
@alphanautica: We have every right to be ashamed, we should be ashamed. We allowed him, and his governments to destroy society. We bent over and took every measure of austerity we were shafted with with out a murmur.Begrudgery? He begrudged the light of day and the air we breath because there isn’t a charge/tax for them.
@Dave Doyle: ah Dave that’s a tad over the top now in fairness.
@Cian Keogh: get your facts right before spouting such hysterical nonsense.
@Sean Ryan: relax, all he said was edna was a cowardly moron, who served his rich paymasters well. No need to get your knickers in a twist.
@alphanautica: you are deluded ir a FG troll or both maybe, back in your box buddy.
@alphanautica: You forgot all the scandals during his first term then, haven’t you?
The only bigger rats wereTrickle Hogan and header Kelly
The biggest crook ever sold the country out to Europe
@Tony Hogan: Here are the keys Merkel?
We can moan about him all we want, and believe me I want to also. But at the end of the day it was the people that voted him and his party in. A lot of us have this to answer for too.
@Damien Dineen: Not the last GE we didn’t.
@Dave Doyle:Who did we vote for to be taoiseach then?He was still the leader of the largest party, standard practice right across Europe for the leader of the biggest party to be given the best chance of forming a government.
P.J.Nolan. we don’t get to vote who will be the taoiseach.
@ray.farrelly: Eh….you do. You vote for TDs and you know full well who’s leader of the parties they’re members of. Of course you vote for the Taoiseach and Party. Just because the moaney trots and want everything for free brigade didn’t get their way at the last election, that’s democracy.
Sean Ryan. Are you thick? No matter what way you spin it we do not get to vote for who will be taoiseach fact.
@Damien Dineen: In Biblical terms people get leaders and Royalty they deserve, not leaders they need?So how much you shout or protest means nothing then but it might get a few to waken up to reality as not everyone is the same?
Austerity?? Hahaha!! A country where the low paid pay the lowest taxes by far in Europe? 27.5% compared to 55% in Belgium and 48-49% in Germany, France, Italy, Hungary etc etc. Such a moaney bunch we have in Ireland.“We want it all!! But we don’t want to pay for it!!!”
@Sean Ryan: that’s just one tax. Consider all the other taxes that have to be paid and how little you get in return. Edna will go down as a black mark in the history books.
Wonder how much the snivelling little git will get in his Pension , more than any Joe soap that’s for sure , if he chose to step down then he shouldn’t get awarded his pension , if I leave my job for no reason I can’t get Dole or help for weeks
He failed in pretty much every facet of his leadership except pulling the wool over peoples eyes, especially those fools in mayo.
Go back to castlebar and I hope never to see your smug gob%=÷×+ face again. Blue shirt traitor
Thank you Enda for making me believe that there is always hope in another country
A true friend to Ireland and it’s people…… Said no one ever!!!
” a strong leader for Ireland” lol funniest comment of the day.
Strong leader me arse!!!
In the end, Enda was all about Enda
He is such a moron, he had a chance to bury fianna fail and instead he give them a leg up, time for these two  parties to join together.
Bam Bam you have my number call me paddy needs to know good riddance to him with big fat pension sicken you !
Lets see what gem we get as leader next, lets see how bad Enda actually was. Please let it be MM, you’ll be asking Enda back
When you look at Trump then Endas a diamond,let’s see who takes over and how well they do.Got left with poison chalice from FF after thieving  Bertie stole the lot.At least now we’ve all got jobs if we want to work not the sponges who soak up all the free money and will never pay tax,and he wasn’t scared to have a go at the rotten Catholic Church which many before hadn’t the balls to do bye Edna and good luck you did imho a solid job
S
A great friend of everybody except the ordinary Irish who will now pay his rotten pension.
https://www.irishtimes.com/news/politics/enda-kenny-s-st-patrick-s-day-white-house-speech-in-full-1.3016420?mode=ampThe finest Taoiseach since Garret Fitzgerald
IRISH OPOINION. A pair of blueshirt traitors.
FG aren’t very good in politics so a raffle would probably do the trick!
A raffle would be equal its already got  a smell of pond froth to it like everything else they put their hand on, nobody gave a mention to the Cerberus kid, minister for shake downs, namas one and only might get the job through de facto, “sure I didn’t know I was in a raffle, the party decided on experience the whistle still plays a tune but you have to listen very closely”.Whatever happens it’s near vomit inducing, I  would prefer to see them crawling out of the publics hole on a snap election, funny how  it worked out though Leo  he thought he got a poison chalice with health after tourism, Francis fitz is dead duck they stabbed her right in the front her seat is gone,
@Adrian:Better still get rid of the lot of them and FF/LAB
@Adrian: Fianna Fail are better I suppose?
Big indo article today about Leo running a secret campaign to oust Enda.Endas days are numbered but Leo is a sneak.I wouldn’t trust Leo as far as I would throw him. Leo is all about Leo.
Dinny’s pushing for coveney so and if he is coveney will be the next leader of the blueshirts.
How? Eeney, meeny, miney, mo. That’s how.
Disgraceful he gets to wake up as Taoiseach after the performance this week and whats gone on
@Seán Domhnall O’Sullivan: So like Groundhog Day but called Taoiseach Day, he keeps repeating the same day until he gets it right and it always starts with Merkel pushing him out of her bed?
Dump the vegetable and swap in the neo-con libtard or the pig-headed bilderberg. Great, just great.
@Louth Noises: Pretty much.. Lose, lose, lose
@Louth Noises: So Coveney then?
The two main contenders. Coveney has been totally ineffective in housing, showed incredibly nieveity in saying he wanted the housing ministery but if he understood the situation with the vulture funds should have avoided that job at all costs. And Leo is all optics and no substance and worringly is more likely to show little concern and too easily move on and leave something in a mess if he’s unable to provide a solution to something.
It’s pathetic.
Love the way the FG hopefuls are sharpening their knives. When opportunity knocks… Maurice who?
@john Appleseed: Maurice is the most admired guy in Ireland for going back to basics and speaking up. Our government won’t and why……because they are on the take just like Ahern and Haughey before. We should one and all be on our feet marching against the powers that be and by god they do think they have the power. We should be marching for a good decent man that simply told the truth and they, those people with no ounce of goodness smeared that man and tried to destroy him for 8 whole years. why are we not marching behind that man. I just don’t get it anymore in this country.
The leader of the Trousering Party will be decided by the cronies, such as Denis O’Brien, and then the politicians will vote accordingly. That’s how the system works.
A change in leadership in FG is just optical and light entertainment.The deeply conservative, pro capital, pro neo-liberal, pro  free market and laissez fairer style  economic and social policy will continue.The alliance with FF will continue,It will be the same old, same old,d.Kenny is going down and bringing Fitzgerald, his Tanaiste with him.
I’m FG fan but surely anybody but Enda can only be a forward step for Irish politics? If they get back in (and under new leadership there’s a distinct possibility) having somebody else in charge other that bumbling fool would be better
Haven’t they flicked a coin for one ministry already. Names in a hat I suppose for these corrupted fu(ks … Maybe Leo will be drawn and they become the Blouse shirts ☺
@Willy Malone: that was the independents
Rock – paper – scissors knockout to last two.
@Tweed Cap: And the most corrupt two faced b….d is…
I’d imagine that they will choose the person who will bring the most improvement to the lives of the most number of their fellow Irish.Just kidding.The ‘whats in it for me’ people will choose according to what they personally can get out of the next leader.
Kenny, they’ll have to drag him out screaming. He’s a stubborn man & can’t accept his faith. He’s had a few let offs over the years, I think he’s been drinking Charlie Haugheys escape tonic or is an admirer of Houdini, Enda it’s time to go!
Ffs.. We have a minority government! that means all parties can have a say and you are going to pull it down… up next is ff with a majority and they will do what they like… nothing is perfect, fg completly screwed the tax payer after ff threw the country under the bus, but in a minority government they dont get it all their own way! You all need to recognise when its the best of a bad situation
Merkel and Bilderberg gives them a call as does George Soros on his Bat(ty) mobile lol.
They can elect who they want I  wouldn’t vote for any of  their gang
they will wait to see who the media will fall in love with, Leo of course aren’t we so progressive and liberal, despite the fact the he failed his health brief , he butts in on other ministers briefs and has nothing to offer other than showing the world how progressive we are.
Rod stewart to pull a name out of the hat i heard
@John Doohan: His undies I think lol.
Same cheeks off the same arse. Nothing to see here move along. Same failed gombeben kapo supine eurofile vermin in charge. The who song wont get fooled again with the lines “meet the new bass  same as the old boss”‘ springs to mind.
It’s nauseating watching RTÉ news swooning over him,cry me a river
my guess is that it be, 1 potato 2 potato 3 potato 3 potato more and so on and on and on, I could be wrong.
https://www.theguardian.com/uk/2002/sep/15/world.race
Simon Coveney will bring the country to it’s knees. He is elitist and war mongering. Would rather spend money on fighter jets than helping the homeless.  Member of those ‘secret clubs’ too so he’s probably a shoo in
FG Leaders are chosen using an ancient rite handed down through the generations; Whom so ever shall place his mickey in the mouth of the severed head of a pig shall wear the crown.
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: it was in the Book of Micheal Lowry but Dennis O’brien had it redacted as it has disparaging remarks about his upstart Dal Cassian forebears.
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: their gonna cut Norin’s head off??
Why use a rocket in the picture? Because they both look like dicks?
The standards fg have reach,a raffle is appropriate.
Who’s in govt?..is it the people elected or are we being governed by an unelected FG national executive?..makes the nonsensical attack on SF and army council etc etc etc seem hypocritical…
And what then?Your seriously not suggesting the party that has 20 odd percent? What about the other 70 odd percent? Why should they even listen to such a stupid comment? Grow up, if you want to live in a democracy. If not I suggest Vietnam or North Korea or even a good dictatorship like Saudi.
Friens of friends, an Ouija board or pigs intestines or a whole load of LSD in a closed room.Everyone knows how they do it, it is the best slapper in the room lol.
Garbage out garbage in!
Do we know which of the contenders are sympathetic to the many people  in Ireland who could benefit from access to medical cannabis ?  I am hoping that the ‘go slow ‘ reluctance in evidence under Enda Kenny will be a thing of the past and that a more enlightened attitude will prevail very soon.
Cringe just cringe
That time whem he presided over a country in the grips of a homelessness crisis & when suicide rates were through the roof….
Felt sorry for the dogs which Inda cuddled…Pity that he didn’t get bitten by these dogs when he did that. What an imbecile!
Cue all the vitriol from armchair experts listing all the problems the country still has while curiously failing to acknowledge the unprecedented mess Enda Kenny inherited or the stunning turnaround he presided over.  Incredibly, they will blame those who administered the medicine for their ills rather than those who brought the plague down upon us.  They will ignore that unemployment halved, the Troika were sent home, a recovery the envy of Europe was achieved and our reputation restored.  They will list the problems that remain as if no other country has similar woes and ignore the ignore the role the circumstances Enda Kenny inherited played in them.  People who have achieved nothing of note in their own lives will deign to call the most successful Taoiseach in this States history a failure.  Really, though, a “thank you, Enda” would be far more appropriate.
@@angrymanwithissues: here’s an example of the calibre of this guy,Just look at the blatant cronyism when he gave bully boy Hogan the money job in BrusselsAfter he perscuted the citizens with water chargesDown to a trickle.This give s you a small inckling of the kind of hatred they have for Irish peopleWe are just here to be screwed by FG
@@angrymanwithissues:   Certain people don’t do gratitude.
@@angrymanwithissues: I disagree that he’s the ‘most successful Taoiseach in this states history’ yes he inherited a mess but  unemployment halved? How many emigrated or are on schemes that just reclassify those unemployed? Recovery envy of Europe? Coming from a very low base and still standards far behind much of said europe. Troika sent home? They imposed the cuts etc and left when they ensured they got what they were here to do. Reputation restored? We’re still seen as a basket case only reputation we have is that elite will do as instructed
@@angrymanwithissues: Thank you Enda for the 2 billion euro billing company, a billion euro hospital, 70 billion to bondholders, a huge chunk of European debt, allowing vulture funds charitable status.Thank you Enda, you were Europe’s puppet, the big fund’s main man, the man who said ‘not one more cent’ and ‘it is morally unjust and unfair to tax a family home’.Thank you for sorting out the homeless, for allowing billions in capital to leave the country while the elite make even more homeless, for the corruption, the lies, the inquiries and the disregard for the citizens of your country.
@@angrymanwithissues: kenny made it worse for many people. He courted approval from EU leaders to the detriment of us all.Without doubt this man has been the worst leader the state has ever known. Keeping the recovery going? What recovery ?The country is well rid of this disasterous character.
@TheHeathen: TheHeathen. You are so right, this man was a disaster for Ireland.
@@angrymanwithissues: So what you’re saying is that Fianna Fail’s Brian Lenihan plan worked? The one the Fine Gael have been following the past 6 years?The one that has lead to a housing crisis, health care crisis, Garda crisis, and on and on.How’s the negitiation on bank debt going? The one that Edna promised yet never asked for?
@Stouts O Shea: Maybe they just hate people trying to freeload
@@angrymanwithissues: he is just a pale impression of bertie ahern.Both liars, just Edna has to turn around and admit to lying every other dayBertie 100% employment on decent wages, enda 90% employment on wages below the poverty lineBertie increased welfare payments to the old the sick and the needy. Edna cut payments leaving thousand homeless, old people freezing in the cold and the sick unable to access heath services.Bertie massive infrastructures undertaken, edna nothing, money wasted on Irish water and money wasted on sites for hospitals while the costs of these projects go through the roof.Bertie was a incoherent waffler, edna sounds like a heavy breathing incoherent sex pest.Bertie was useless and still edna makes him look positively genius.
@@angrymanwithissues:recovery the envy of Europe was achieved and our reputation restored – are you smoking crack ? You do understand how much debt has been taken on by the nation and by future generations? You get how much money has been reallocated by Nama from the tax- payer and future tax payers under Enda’s time as leader of the country.The thanks you want for Enda for me is wrapped up in his massive paycheck and colossal pension –  Anyone walking away with the kind of wealth Enda has given himself has been well thanked for the role they played and did not do it for civic duty -
@@angrymanwitissues.  Hi angryman with mental health issues. As a practicing psychiatrist I can diagnose your problem, deeply deluded pysoticism there is no cure, but the symptoms can be alleviated by not reading the independent, stop watching rte, but most importantly switch off your internet.
@joe o hare:Possibly the greatest comparison ever done.Flawless.
@@angrymanwithissues: “a thank you, Enda” would be far more appropriate”. Tell that to the people of Roscommon.
@@angrymanwithissues: you are seriously funny but you definitely have issues that need resolving. Thank you Enda – for what? Home tax / paying private bondholder debt / keeping German banks afloat / reduced wages / billions wasted on Irish water / records broken consistently with regards to hospital waiting lists / homelessness etc. Angry man – Silly Man with issues is a better handle don’t you think?
@@angrymanwithissues: Hahahahaha, best laugh I’ve had in ages!
@@angrymanwithissues: the country is still in a mess, after him.
@Podge: The Trokia never imposed one cut. They told Kenny what the bottom line was, it was entirely left up to the government how the bottom line was achieved.The poorest, the most vulnerable, the ones with most to lose, bore the brunt of the austerity imposed to make that bottom line.For those at the top, and the ones whose greed caused the problems, it was business as usual.
@@angrymanwithissues: You really should get help for your delusion . Though I admit that won’t be easy because of the underfunding of the mental health budget.and the general mess that is the health service under FG.
@Dave Doyle: true – what I meant was that indirectly they imposed the cuts as part of the bailout/financial support (!!) agreement and as you rightly pointed out the vulnerable in our society bore the brunt of it.
@Eoin Mulhern: Eoin- people like you?  People consumed by Parish Pump politics.  People who don’t give a toss about the national interest…just about what they can wrangle for their neighbourhood? You’re the reason why we have to suffer Healy Rae’s.  You’re the reason this country’s political system is in tatters.  You’re the reason so much taxpayers money is wasted buying off whichever local yobo holds the balance of power in the Dail.  Motto for you.
@Stouts O Shea: we were screwed even more by FF before that. So why do 2/3 of the Irish electorate continue to support, and will vote for, either party. Because this country is full of muppets, thats why
Won’t be  popular on here, but the best Taoiseach of the last 25 years!
@John McDonnell: yes, but the standard was very low. Reynolds, Bruton, Aherne and Cowan weren’t hard acts to follow.
@John McDonnell:A good leader would not be required to step down, a good leader would have the support and praise of a population, a good leader could walk the streets and be met with gratuitous applause and welcome.Enda Kenny has none of those things.
@John McDonnell: lies are rarely popular, although I did like the one about the man with two pints are the phone call edna got telling him the great job he was doing, although wasn’t overly impressed with the army and ATM’s one.
@joe o hare: Who was a better Taoiseach in the last 20-30 years?
@John McDonnell: It will be even less popular on here but Bertie was.
@John McDonnell: if you really believe that old guff you must have serious mental health issues and I am not being flippant.Maybe you are a FG TD though, that woukd explain a lot…
@robert lester: a good leader would not be terrified to appear on the Vincent Brown programme. It would make great TV seeing the Mayo Muppet being dissected by Irelands only real political commentator.
@Gus Sheridan:  Mental health issues??? Sure tell me who was better than him then instead of just giving abuse.
A sell out, a traitor, the damage he has wrought on Irish society is immeasurable. The eviction suicides leave blood on his hands. A fantasist, liar, incapable of telling the truth.No leader, only capable of doing what he’s told, unable to string two meaningful words together, unless scripted. Rejected at the last GE, yet clung on by his ego. A friend of bankers, the IMF, Vultures and of course Dobby. No friend of ordinary citizens, no understanding of the struggle he imposed.History will not be kind to this gombeen.
Remember alot of Endas ministers had no confidence in Enda 7 years ago & yet thought he was “great” as when he kept those enemies close by giving them plush jobs only months after their heave against him. Did Leo Bruton Creighton etc have much confidence in him in the last 7 years?
I’ll believe it when I see it, won’t hold my breath it was easier to topple the Ceausescu’s!
@Adrian: He will address the issue of leadership after……  after….. after…….conclusively after…….. conclusively after that.
@abcyz: maybe he will announce his departure on the Vincent Browne programme?
@Gus Sheridan: It will have to pre recorded & with only aproved set questions.
@abcyz: lol class
How will we ever survive without him? A nice, honest man but like his fellow countymen in the GAA, a nearly man or maybe even a never man….Close but no cigar Edna
@Johnny Maloney: you can’t put honest and politician in the same sentence!!!!!!!!
@Donal O’Connell:    Fake News, news flash “Kenny is going”.  Who will the media pick on next to hound out of office(and sell product).
@Donal O’Connell: Agreed.. Sorry should not have put the word honest in there….Maybe an honest trier is what I meant but point taken. I stand corrected.
Did we get new politics ?Did he keep his word ?Did he do a report on each TD ?Did he just take up the plan to get out of the mess FF put us into that FF had embarked on ?Did he just do the bidding of MerkilWhat is the ans to those questions
@FlopFlipU: Ask him what’s his favourite easter egg & you might get an honest answer for once. He will even learn the answer off for that.
I’m not going to comment on his record as it’s all been said previously and will be I am sure here… The people would just like to know what the hell is going on, is he staying so we can continue to bxtch and moan about him or do we need to start that with someone else? He ain’t doing himself any favours with what seems like a childish – I’ll tell you tomorrow, maybe, or the next day. Tell us and be done with it. I’ve never liked you anyway!!! (see childish too)
Fine Gael the “What’s in it for me?” Party as exposed by RTE doc have the nerve to demonise the poor with Leo’s campaign
Seems like he was just taking up space as taoiseach for the last few years when his own party colleagues don’t think he’s good enough for the job now. Surely if he was good enough,  people wouldn’t be wanting him to resign. And politics is not like sport where you peak and then go downhill.
@Adrian: it’s precisely because he is so good that the media, not his party colleagues want him to go.
@Tom Molloy: Do you think the media is making up all these controversarys!
The pic pretty much sums it up. The ongoing to do list is a long list of trips abroad. No sign of a housing crisis, health crisis or all the protests in that pic, he seems ignorantly and blissfully unaware. Reasons to stay, the big ticket items of brexit and Northern Ireland.
He’s the Arsene Wenger of Irish politics.
Enda and his lot are nothing but plastic Tory, he is only waiting on a sweet deal a new jobbie in Brussels with even more money watch and see soon he get the “oke” he be gone and god help us the poor of that pure evil Leo look at me I’m great because I’m rich , get into power he will put a stealth tax on fresh air to prove himself , there is no jobs there is no recovery is a big farce that again only benefit the rich , Enda suddenly hicking house prices and rents giving banks powers to throw people out their homes vulture funds to squeeze people for money they don’t have and massive amounts of levies and stealth taxation did not and does not equate to success look around , look at the number of suicides , there is no people coming back from immigration, if things were so great why do they keep that massive sign on the airport -please pretty please tell your friends to bring business to Ireland ? Wake up this appearance the rich are giving is a mask and again sooner or later it will fall look at the numbers of criminality rising the domestic violence rising , unless you have money is impossible to have a roof above the head , transport , bill paying and food all at same time . So I don’t see  this recovery coming the poor way only the rich .
Without Enda Kenny Ireland would still be in recession, although there were ups and downs he did a great job and he really kept the recovery going.
@מוחמד אל ח’ליפה: vomits……
@מוחמד אל ח’ליפה: Without him we would be back in caves eating bugs…
Clown @מוחמד אל ח’ליפה:
I don’t see the Moriarty Report in that cartoon, It’s not there in reality either.
Not so Fine ‘Gael’ (what’s in it for me party)Friends of the rich, enemies of the poor.Lies lies and more lies, anything to get into power.Lets get rid of the Quangos = Lets make more QuangosNot one red cent = Billions of red centsNot a week goes by and there is a new revelation.Will there be anything done, is anyone accountable – no, they are still there.At the end of the day they are just the ‘middle management’The bosses are now in Brussels and further beyond, dictating the ‘rules’
Mealy mouthed, thin lipped and dishonest.
Hope so,he looked like he was going to haunt the Place !
Having read all the comments on this article and concluded the overwhelming view was against Enda Kenny’s leadership , I am amazed to see a pro Enda Kenny supporter top of the thumbs up. Could’nt be fixed, could it?
Enda and Fine Gael point to their ‘success and achievements’ and show how they fixed the country.The problem is they did it on the back of the working/middle class who suffered the most. The upper class made more money than in previous years and continue to do so.The banks have been ‘fixed’ to become the monopoly they have always been. Screwing the country without penalty or shame.So we will in time  be back to where we were pre crash waiting for the next crash because it serves no one on high to change things for the people.Good riddance to bad rubbish…unfortunately I think I might be writing this again in a few years.The King is dead, long live the King.
@Angry Man with a box of tissues and a picture of Enda in the other hand by the sounds of things……
By clinging on like a limpet, what kenny is really saying is, he does’nt trust the morons coming up behind him to do their job, brexit etc.
How fortunate for governments that the people they administer don’t think – Adolf Hitler
A decent man who was consistent in his conservatism. He had some terrible lieutenants Hogan, Noonan , Shatter did not exercise enough control over these ministers. Going at a good time it’s rare someone leaves while on top. He also let the likes of his coalition partners make a mug of themselves. Labour and Fianna Fail have let him do what he wants. The next leader will face some payback.
@prop joe: untalented, uncaring, lying, deluded, self-serving, a joke. Is this the best we can do with ejiits like him?
@Gus Sheridan: untalented yes you can’t get more unimaginative than a school teacher. But uncaring,  deluded? He’s just an average conservative politician that the electorate vote in time and time again.  But as a leader he was calm and level headed. I don’t think he has an ego like most politicians. It pains me to say that since his party represents evil. Speaking of evil M Martin should say he isn’t supporting any other leader and call an election.
We have a Taoiseach no one wants leading a government that’s not supported by the majority of people and they have full confidence in a Garda commissioner who is untenable in her position.My name is Enda Kenny; look on my works, ye mighty, and despair.Nothing beside remains. Round the decay of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare, the lone and level Strands Stretch far away.
@robert lester: beautiful!
@robert lester:  dam straight and brace yourself if his boy Leo gets in a greedy Richie Rich with a need to prove himself . Cuts ,more charges will slay the new class ( once working class) now working poor and the (once poor ) now the destitute will be on for some whole new levels of hurt.Enda say people want deliverance , nah not really we want to be able to live life with dignity . Work pay bills eat you know them things we used to be able to before the rich start taxing us all out of existence and criminalising us when we can’t afford their dead lines, people lives in reality Ireland and the rich live in the land of no real worries .He can dismiss his car and driver go for a stroll , some of us can’t afford petrol to go home every night those who still have some work . Just saying
@robert lester: And we get to pay them handsome pensions for the rest of their lives while we all live with mistakes resulting from their incompetence.
@WilhelminaMCallaghan: “i would like to thank Eamon and the Labour Party for taking it up the Johnny Harris for us thanks lads”
Feck sake, poor passer bys out in the park trying to enjoy a bit of good weather and it gets ruined by having to converse with that langball
Leo talking about fraud?? Up to 12 times wasted is by the DSP by their own error.Funny how he is not targeting the welfare paid to employers includingprofitable big & small companies which is multiple times anything paid to so called fraudsters. How can anyone defraud the dole with the Joan Burton bio cards & face recognition technology & constant random times of appointments & courses that everyone is forced to do? Family Income Supplement costs 250 million a year and is welfare for poverty pay employers & these employers are FG voters so Leo doesn’t seem to want to upset his base in his leadership campaign. FIS is probably going to grow every year in the gig, low conditions & even lower wage economy. “Let’s keep DEMONISING THE POOR” must be FG’S recovery going slogan replacement.
@abcyz: 12 times more
@Ian: I love the adjective ” langball”. Class !
@WilhelminaMCallaghan:Gotta be creative to get past the profanity filter sometimes :-)
Thanks to Edna there are thousands in this country, who don’t look forward to tomorrow, that will be how his term as taoiseach will be remembered, bringing pain and suffering to the old, the poor, the disabled, the I’ll, those with mental health problems, pretty much those most vulnerable, while at the same time cutting deals and feathering the nests of the most well off.
The former bank regulator on 640,000 + euro lump sum & annual EARLY pension of 140,000 + euro looks forward to everyday. Mary Harney, Bertie, B.Cowen & who could forget the smoked salmon of ALL CHAMPAGNE socialists Eamon Gilmore & Pat Rabbitte. Sadly the list of Early massive multiple pensioners goes on & on each receiving up to a few thousand EVERY week yet FG & Leo along with Labour (in gov till May 2016 & still probably do as it’s the tesco ad lier Labour party afterall) focus on DEMONISING THE POOR
“Basking in the evening light, the Taoiseach stopped to talk to passersby ”Let me guess that passerby had 2 pints in their hands.
@Christopher Treacy: They still could sign it to him. Most of use understand that universal one.
@Kerry Blake: Wonder were the army on the streets guarding atms too??
All that time in government ….and wouldn’t. have an interview with Vincent Browne ?
@ballbreaker: Remember Mario Rosenstocks take on what such an interview would be like?
In terms of track record; in halving unemployment, getting rid of the Troika, making Ireland the fastest growing economy in Europe again & restoring our reputation, Enda Kenny is arguably the most successful Taoiseach in our history.  That he is the subject of such vitriol on here says more about those spitting it out than it does about Enda.  Ultimately, it demonstrates a lack of sophistication on the part of an electorate incapable of discriminating between their frustration at what happened our country & those administering the medicine.  History will be very, very kind to Enda Kenny.
@@angrymanwithissues: What about the big increase in suicides on his watch? Hospital services collapsing, people suffering from Down’s Syndrome getting letters from the DoSP asked if they have recovered. Increasing levels of homelessness…..BTW what you claim Enda succeeded with was just following the plan agreed between FF and the Troika.
@@angrymanwithissues: Well said, unpopular to do so on Pravda but well said.
@@angrymanwithissues: Well said. “No prophet is accepted in his home town”. He’s the best and most honourable Taoiseach we have had in the last 30 years if not longer.
@mickmc: Is he not also the Taoiseach who has had to correct the record of the house on the most occasions?
@mickmc: hahaha you are a comedian!
@@angrymanwithissues: I don’t like him one bit. And don’t fully appreciate or understand what he has or hasn’t done in office. But I certainly do know at first hand the fkucing god awful state the country was in when he took over from the FF shower of rapists. I had to sleep for 6 months in my brothers kitchen in west London just to try and survive. I can understand the increase in suicide rates for those with no options.
@@angrymanwithissues: if Edna hadn’t cut the mental health budget in half, you could get medication to prevent severe delusions.
@joe o hare: he didn’t cut the mental health budget in half. He actually raised it my nearly €25,000,000. Get your facts straight before you spout sh!t out of your trap
@Gus Sheridan: No not really. Can you tell me the name of a better one in the last 30 years.
@mickmc: What about Bertie? Zero unemployment (real, not massaged figures)Low taxes yet high tax take.Fastest growing economy in the worldBest paid public servantsHighest welfare payments to the needy any where in the universeLoved by everybodyMassive infrastructural improvementModern road networkEloquent and articulate orator.Long live Bertie.If only he would come back.
@Negan: you seem to have anger management issues, you could have got them addressed, if Edna hadn’t savaged the mental health budget. But seriously, talk to somebody, before you end up speaking to somebody in the real world like that, in the real world and get your teeth kicked in.
@Kerry Blake: what big increase. The figures say otherwise.http://www.nsrf.ie/statistics/suicide/It seems you just made up some random negativity, and your lie is attracting likes.
@@angrymanwithissues: well I’d say you might want to go sucking turnips as that’s Ednas legacy to us all.
@mickmc: turnips to you too.
@joe o hare: Oh yes Bertie “the most cunning, the most devious of them all”. You omitted the trips to Manchester, the luck he had on the horses, and not forgetting the old dig out from paddy the plaster and the rest of his friends. Have you forgotten about the Mahon Tribunal?
@@angrymanwithissues: Am there is no need. You can stop. We have had 6 years of the vegetable. He sold out his own people ion Europe and has sold out every day since. No need to lie for him. You forget we live in the real world. A reality of misery created by Kenny and hIs natzi party.
@@angrymanwithissues: You don’t need sophistication. You need common sense. Enda isn’t capable of sophistication he is incapable of uttering a sentence without someone writing it for him. You forget the average IQ of the Journal reader is at least ten times higher than anyone connected with the Fianna Gael party or supporters. Ye can’t comprehend that the ordinary person on the street surpasses the propagandist brainwashing of any Fianna Gael supporter.
@KerryBlueMike: Liars will always be unpopular
@mickmc: You are paraphrasing a man who embodied truth. You and your ilk embody his opposite. The liar from the beginning. You carry on his work well.
@Negan: Liar. He cut funding to everything that ordinary vulnerable depend on. There isn’t a day without a protest outside of Leinster house because of his Tory policies.
@Christopher Gardiner: Who embodied the truth, Bertie Ahern or Charlie Haughey?
@Brian Farrell: you see Brian, angryman and mickme  have not suffered under Edna and they could not give a toss about how the other 80% of us are getting by. Typical I’m alright jacks blueshirts who would defend this clown under any circumstances.
@Derek Poutch: Have I not. Do you think I’m immune from paying tax of every kind imaginable. I pay a hell of a lot more tax than a lot of the wingers on here. The man and his government did what he had to do to clean up the mess left by FF and the Greens and for that the country should be eternal grateful.
The cute hoor will probably decide to stay!
@Colette Kearns: I hope he dose, ye deserve every bit of him, and I’m not looking forward to rubber lips and the flip-flops for 5 years…….
@Colette Kearns: The man with 2 pints in one hand told him so but the man who wants 3 pints and then drive home doesn’t lol.
@Peadar O Greachain, like thanks but no thanks ye can keep them both! ( Jeasus Peadar thats an awful thing to say to anyone, such an infliction ide prefer to be in a room full of rat’s )
@Colette Kearns: that comment Colette was not directed at yourself, just in general….the Kenny voters of this wee Island of ours..…
I can’t wait to see him leave, amd with him a dark hour in the short history of this state.
@Ben Coughlan: I take it by that statement the prospect of a new Taoiseach excites you greatly.
@mickmc: Dustin the turkey would be an improvement
It is of no real consequence who replaces Dame Edna, they still must answer to Brussels, there is still f all they can do about Brexit, and there is still F all they can do about the crippling national debt (not one more red cent, yeah, right.) Modern Democracy is an illusion, a shell game, where the truth is hidden and lies are all you will find.
He was very good at pointing to shyte , thats about my impression.
@Diarmuid Doran: You mean floaters in the eyes, the eyes to the right say go as does the eyes to the left, bad joke lol.
@robert lester: Wax lyrical all you like.  The reality is Enda Kenny leaves behind him a much healthier Republic than he inherited.  That’s indisputable.  The facts and statistics are incontrivertible.  And that will be his legacy: A country no longer the laughing stock of Europe, an economy no longer in a death spiral and hundreds of thousands of people back at work.  Is Ireland perfect? Of course not.  But it’s a hell of a lot better off now than before Enda became Taoiseach.
@@angrymanwithissues: please go and see your doctor asap and explain all that guff about the Mayo Muppet, they can treat delusions now.
@@angrymanwithissues: His legacy will be the fact he followed FF and the troikas plan slavishly with no thought about what those actions caused to his own fellow citizens.
@@angrymanwithissues: who is a lot better off since Kenny became Taoiseach??sick people? young families? pensioners? working poor? would be foreign billionaires?, german bond holders? the troika(as now they can work from home)?what achievements has he accredited himself, normal working people(USC still there)how abot foreign vulture funds? now there is a section of foreign society which Kenny and noonan can be proud!
@ciaran: Indeed Ciaran, Well said, for a minute there with all the Enda Fawning I thought I was in an alternate reality.The sooner FFFGLAB Ltd. are pushed out the better.They only have the interests of themselves and their cronies at heart.
@ciaran: Ciaran- how about the 50% of unemployed people who found work thanks to the economic recovery Enda Kenny presided over?  What about every Irish person whose wages have gone up because the economy is strong again & their employers are doing good business?  I ask because they represent a huge percentage of the population yet you and your ilk never want to talk about them?
@@angrymanwithissues: While we are on the ‘how about’ – how about the thousands that had to emigrate, replaced by cheap immigrant labour.Wages gone up ? – Not around hereMore taxes is our lot which he ‘presides’ over.
@Kerry Blake: good riddance, he should take varadkar & coveney with him two more useless muppets
@@angrymanwithissues: at this stage I really don’t want to know what your angry about or your issues but maybe sunlight isn’t good for you?
@ciaran: and you for got the McCabe family and Poor Grace too in your excellent retort
@@angrymanwithissues: He leaves behind a wasteland of misery you dope. Brainwashed clone.
@@angrymanwithissues: See the doctor. You suffer from serious delusions. Ireland is a wasteland for its citizens. Kenny made it a tax haven of the highest order for the super rich.
I don’t blame politicians for lying- That’s how you get elected. I do blame people for voting them into office while pretending to believe their obvious lies. The political parties won’t survive long. The writing is on the wall for them. It doesn’t matter who replaces Kenny. It really doesn’t.
The man is a walking talking living joke at this stage to be fair and so are the people who continue to keep this delusional fool in power. It’s comparable to FIDDLING while Rome burns or at least is sold of piecemeal!
Wish TOMORROW was TODAY
@pat seery: I wish tomorrow is 6 years from now.
@Negan: Take your meds and go offline.
@Kerry Blake: I don’t know if you noticed, Kerry.  Things were pretty grim when Enda took over.  You say everything isn’t perfect now? Perhaps you might point me to a country without problems?   I said history would be kind to Enda.  I didn’t say he was the Messiah.  That problems remain after the complete meltdown of our economy shouldn’t surprise anyone.  That we have progressed as far as we have, should.
@@angrymanwithissues: I see him as more of a Judas to the Irish people…..
@@angrymanwithissues: his first act when elected to gov was to attack people on medical cards, kindda set the tone for his tenure. THATS his and fg’s history now.
@@angrymanwithissues: Indeed and they got even grimmer with Enda’s arrival for the citizens of this state.
…………….It’s not often you see the 3 Stooges together………..LARRY Kenny, MO Healy-Rae..and CURLY (Healy-Rae Minor)….Jaysus, Comedy’s on the way back, along with Donald Duck in the White House……..
Seriously I think he’s hanging in there to finish off this country with the bloody awful TTIP.agreement which by the way Doesn’t make any allowances for climate change. ( if your into that sort of thing!)
A coward and a liar. great to see him back only to announce he’s off again, how usual of himnoonan get your coat it’s OVER
Can we have a thread on the appearance on prime time of Maria Steen and Ruth Coppinger discussing the schools admissions policy.Game Set and Match to Maria Steen.Ruth Coppinger had no answers and resorted to getting personal.She mentioned how one of her constituents kid (of no religion) came home one day and asked when they will make their holy communion.Shock, horror. Such unlicensed indoctrination.It was pathetic.Not Coppingers finest hour.
Kenny can’t leave unless FF back his successor. If they don’t then the cards come crumbling down and back to the poles we go. Feckin joke
Thank you, An Taoiseach. You were a hero to this country.
@Negan: Now that is funny well done!
@Negan: I doff my cap to you sir, now rub my head for luck, go on, Go On, GWAN!
@Negan: ha ha ha ha ha, you are some comedian
@Negan: You sound like a deranged Knob.
“Fastest growing country in europe for the forth year running” wippdy f***ing dooo.. like pinocchios nose our Kenny, lies lies lies. Is anybody ever going to deal with the real problems happening now all over the country. Living in a dreamland
@Rondon: in a dreamland that is 94% employment. Yes it is amazing being here. You just stay where you are in your little begrudges island, we don’t want you here.
@Negan: whose behalf do you think you speak for. F.g are despised by 3/4 of the population.
@joe o hare: where do you get that figure from? Everyone who doesn’t give you a first preference despises you? So 98% of people despise AAA for example ?So, voting Labour 1, FG 2,3,4 is ‘despising’ FG? Voting FF 1,2, FG 3,4?You will get more respect for your opinions if you express them without ridiculous exaggeration.
@Negan: have a dark room for your head because your backside isn’t working
@naggin, you might want to take your head out of the sand on your own little island there….. he or anyone else that has the power to change serious social issues on “begrudgers island” have failed and have ignored them, but sure its grand most of us are working and paying the bills for the big boys.
@Negan: Lies and you know it. You have some thick neck spouting propaganda. The whole country is on its knees, Gael manipulates figures for limited people like you to churn out. You are a clone.
@Michael Doyle: Ok let me express this. Kenny and Fianna Gael are hated by about 80 per cent of the people. Why do you think they got 25% vote in the last election.
I may of finally found a suitable avatar (3rd down).
The human race does a load of bull and talks a load of bull as well.One set of gob****** trying to impress another set of gob****** and if its not than then they are chasing a55 or an a55 lol.
Will someone tell that Healy-Rae ejiit that we all know he is as bald as a billiard ball.Stop trying to hide the fact by wearing that smelly cap, you look stupid.
It absolutely sickens me to see him grinning while thousands of people wake up to pain and a slow death because he pulled funding from basic healthcare for thousands on waiting lists and trollies. He is a total disgrace. The only thing worse than him was the anglo tapes
It absolutely sickens me to see him grinning while thousands of wake people wake up to pain and a slow death because he pulled funding from basic healthcare for thousands on waiting lists. He is a total disgrace. The only thing worse than him was the angle tapes.
We have a government who are all basically teachers who have no clue as to how to run a country’ we have Garda who are worse than the Criminals they try to catch….we are the laughing stock of Europe
We are looking forward to it , to see the back of you , that’s if you go at all !
Well done to a good Goverment of Labour and FG between 2011/2016. Rescuedthe state from the cliff top. To Kenny, Gilmore,Rabbitte,Burton et all,thanh you. Wewere hasty to abondon Labour in last election.
@George Moran: I think that there’s a typo in your surname, should be an o instead of an a!
Well done to a good Goverment of Labour and FG between 2011/2016. Rescuedthe state from the cliff top. To Kenny, Gilmore,Rabbitte,Burton et all ,thank you. Wewere hasty to abondon Labour in last election.
Like everything in this country, like postage stamps, health insurance etc etc, if briquettes were not as expensive to buy maybe more people would buy them and help keep these people in their jobs.
@Declan Moran: carbon tax on the poor. thank the green party for this as well as hiking car tax for poor people. Salon Socialists.
Government levies have cost these guys their livelihoods.
Politics in this country is a joke! The FG politicians will no doubt be shouting about what a great taoiseach kenny has been while at the same time have been constantly wanting him to resign for a long time now. Surely if he was doing a competent job, none of them should want him to resign. Praising the guy and wanting rid if him at the same time surely is a massive contradiction. And why is he still in the job if he’s deemed not fit for the job? The whole setup is farsical!
It’s nothing to do with what’s best for the country if we continuously elect these gombeen muppet taoiseachs and politicians. It’s about these talentless muppets just wanting the power and play lordy over things. It’s morally criminal and highly irresponsible politics when people’s lives are at stake and we accept these clowns and hand them the responsibility to run the country.
No safe jobs any more… Sooner the unions realise it the better
The finest  Teashock ever – better than Haughey, Cowen, Ahern etc.
@Fank Pulman:He probably is the finest Teashock ever, but unfortunately he is an awful Taoiseach.
Judging by what I’ve seen in the last two years, people have returned to their bogs, back to been self sufficient for a lot of us, raring our own turf, growing our own veg. Why would you pay stupid money for what is basically peat dust when you can fill your shed for a fraction of the cost with a quality fuel source.
Get out you squatter
@Tom Collins: Just remember if/when he goes, we end up with a new Taoiseach who will just be as bad let’s admit it but now we have two Taoiseach pensions to be concerned about when this government goes….
@Tom Collins: I would rather 100 years of kenny then one of Leo
Joan Collins looks awful without her make up only saw her in the movie absolutely fabulous looks completely different
DiversifyMake the briquettes into smaller cubes sold by the bag
People still believe FG FF … 100 years closing in of these cheeks in power …We so need change :(
Like the Lisbon and Nice Treaties?
Can we have a referendum on using my tax Euros to pay back money I nor the Irish people did not bottow? please? Or would that be too much to ask?
Pinocio government
@Gerard Heery: long noses.
@Tony Daly: suits them with their snouts in the trough
Enda is too busy clocking up Air Miles l see he is off to the  U S  A     again
@pat seery: He went to the Caymen’s a few years ago around Paddy’s day?
How about a referendum on who we have for toaiseach…. #NotmyTaoiseach
@Phil Hegarty: thats called a general election
Although I am strongly opposed to the Eight Amendment and favour its simple repeal, no Referendum on the Eight Amendment will be held whilst FF and FG are in power.
@Tony Daly: End reminds me of the film. The Rise and Rise of Michael Rimmer.
Where is the top  83% referendum called for by the Constitution Convention? They asked for the reintroduction of Participatory Democracy.If you agree with it or not, the public is not being given that referendum – not being given even a choice on the matter despite a citizens assembly format for that being set-up by Fine Gael and co. Fine Gael didn’t like the result from that either – so there too, the media buried the story and Fine Gael continues to give instead, other items far down the list.Fine Gael only like democracy with it suits their party agenda – if it don’t, then the public can go to hell it seems!
The Citizens Assembly, which has performed its duties admirably, was just a sop to address a political situation.
I’d like us, the people to decide the topics put forward for referenda, not politicians. Constitutional change matters need referendum to amend but there MUST be a 50/50 approach with issues the public want also. Asking about the 8th amendment should first of all reflect the citizens’ assembly recommendation otherwise why bother having such an assembly and at the same referendum, a topic of public concern such as ownership and management of National Maternity Hospital must be fully public. Another one currently topical would be replace all Gardai Senior Mgmt including Commissioner with external appointees free from political or existing Garda culture.
@Gerry Carroll: excellent comment.
Wouldn’t surprise me if they just forgot about them, because that’s the level of competency this gov is at!
sadly the electorate in this country are not very intelligent and use referendums as a tool to give the government a good kicking totally ignoring the issue.
Probably scared of referenda after what happened next door. Better to let the “elite” decide for everyone, right?
Referenda… Come on guys, aren’t journalists supposed to know the language they’re writing in…?
@Patrick Kearns: Referendums is actually correct. If you’re going to be a grammar Nazi at least do it right.
So if they sell a lie well enough, then they can get everyone to support policies that are detrimental to themselves but good for the elite. Great idea. Brexit comes to mind. Make the public complicit in their own crimes.No thank you.I would prefer it if instead we could put in place draconian consecuences for those in power and their cronies if they hurt the people’s quality of life. Say strip them and their families of everything, etc… yes. That would work a treat.
Let the people decide#???we did  decide on where WE  WANT  OUR THATS OUR CHILDRENS Hospital  so now I’m confused let the people decide
LET THE PEOPLE DECIDE WE HAVE DECIDED WHERE WE WANT OUR THAT IS OUR CHILDRENS HOSPITAL NOW IM CONFUSED LET THE PEOPLE DECIDE  WHERE’S THE PROBLEM WITH THE MAJORITY OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE DECIDED YEAH I’M SURE CONFUSED
Stuck capslock is stuck.
They’ve done loads. Corruption, scandals, homelessness, HSE, NAMA on and on it goes. Loads of damage to our society and our people.
@Honest John: true and they also inherited a lot of that from FF but people wouldn’t remember that at the next election
@Honest John: to be fair, we have ourselves to blame. We keep voting for the same system that fails us time & time again.
@Jim Buckley Barrett: It’s been 6 years since FF were in power. I think that excuse has worn thin.
@Pheilum Shannon: no use of the guillotine this time thought. IW cost them the election last time out.
@Just Me: If you imagine for one second that FF are not in a real coalition with FG, and therefore in power. You’re so very wrong.
@Just Me: six years is nothing when compared to the generations (note, generations not decades) to repay the bailout forced on us all (politicians excepted of course) by FF’s arrogance and ‘entitlement’ to govern (ruin) the country. They should have been banished for as long as their mess left behind takes to clear. All that considered, it hasn’t taken FG (propped up now by FF) to assume the same ‘we know best’ arrogance; Garda scandals upon scandals, National Maternity Hospital gift to the nuns who tortured and used as slaves so many women over so long. For shame on FG and even more FF who are only holding the current ‘government’ in place until there’s enough advantage to themselves when they’ll pull the plug only then. Six years? Sixty plus wouldn’t be enough free of FF
@Honest John: Fianna Gael and Labour have done untold damage to Irish  Society. We are now firmly back in the 80′s wage and welfare wise. Rights that were gained over decades for workers and the unemployed have been stripped by Joan Burton and Enda Kenny. We won’t forget. This government will go down in history as the most inept cowardly politicians in the history of the state. This government is a victory for corrupt bankers and developers. They took the debt from private to public forever put on the shoulders of the Irish people. Enda Kenny singular legacy to the Irish people. We will never forget.
@Christopher Gardiner: you only got one thing right, we will never forget. We will never forget about how this govt. have saved the Irish economy, society and people, from absolute economic disaster. And have actually raised the employment rate to nearly 94%. You can chat sh!t about this govt. all you want but once FF or some independent gombeens get into power you won’t be saying any of that, I bet well all be praising Mr. Kenny in the future and he will definitely go down in history as one of the best taoiseach in history, just behind Sean Lemass. Count your blessing Chris, count your blessings .
@Just Me: thick or something ? In what way are Ff not still in power? Besides they’re just playing games they’d pull the rug from under fg if they can
@Pheilum Shannon: Maybe you did I didn’t vote for any FG FF Lab TDs. Not until we get rid of these parasites we won’t have a fair and equal country. They will oppress us just like the British did ramming laws and taxes down our throats till we can’t give anymore while they live the high life.
Pay Increase, Pension Increase, They have done well for themselves.
@David Huston:http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4498078/New-Zealands-ambitious-plan-save-birds-Kill-rat.htmlWe should do the same lol.
Destroyed us. Carrried on what the other cheek FF set in motion to protect the elite in society. Nearing 100 years of these cheeks of the same arse ruling, and we are about to replace one with the other again soon. Corrupt shower of pocket stuffers :(We so badly need change …
@Willy Malone: Well the people have voted both of these parties in over the past 100 years. They must be doing something right for the majority of the population or the elite as you put it.
@mickmc: They didn’t vote them for doing good. You are making a huge mistake here. They voted them in because they were ignorant. All they know is one Fianna or another. Thats the limit of the electorate over 50 here. Ignorance. But as people die who voted for them just watch their electoral base go downhill because younger people will not do this as they have way more cop on and knowledge when it comes to selfish politicians. Thats what Fianna Gael have always counted on, Ignorance. That day is over.
@Christopher Gardiner: well said , and I total agree. Hopefully the younger generation will not vote for the old guard.  I’m Sick to death of the FF, FG charade.
@moe: same here, problem is no matter what or how badly FF/FG/LAB do there are so many people who will never vote any way different from the way they & their families before them voted. For a country rich in culture, art and generosity, the life-long allegiance to one or other main party means we’re condemned forever to be mis-ruled. Change is needed but the shadows of the Civil War almost a hundred years ago are still evident at elections here.
@Gerry Carroll: So in other word you lot can sum up the Irish electorate as stupid. Or perhaps it’s you lot that are stupid. Here’s an idea, maybe get up your ass and do something with your life instead of expecting someone else to do it for you. No one owes you a living it’s up to you to make it for yourself.
If their performance was measured in scandal, they have overachieved. There’s another Garda scandal come to light c/w the whistle blower being treated as all whistle blowers are.
Rich getting richer, poor getting poorer, vulture funds and hoteliers popping the corks, tax loophooles still open for the multinationals, record numbers of children in poverty, record number of people on zero hour contracts, record number of people on minimum wage or underemployed.Yep, if you believe in FG ideology, I reckon you’d think they’re doing a swell job.
@The Risen: And the Journal is riddled with Fianna Gael ideologues who are constantly on their guard to reassure the ignorant who don’t know any better. They forget that we can see right through their propaganda.
They’ve done feck all. Nearly two million working?? What about the rest of the people?
@Mary Murphy: babies, kids, college students, OPA, homemakers…..
@Mary Murphy: Are you stating that old age pensioners and children should have jobs?At 6% unemployment we are nearly at a point ( around 4.5%) where all over the world is regarded as full employment.
@Simon Bally: actually Simon taking in babies older people and genuine cases still leave a hell of a lot unemployed!
@Simon Bally: you do realise these figures don’t cover people on social welfare schemes etc? So the reality is a bit different.
So they have done alright
@Graham McNamara: Why don’t you take a trip to A+E and see how well there doing, A disastrous self serving government led by a  puppet leader, Propped up by FF.
@Graham McNamara: For themselves.
@Graham McNamara: possibly if you do what our parents do/did and immerse yourself in rte ,Indo Denis O’ propagandaFg voter are we?
I wonder why two of o’connors advisors left their roles. Perhaps they saw the major scam that was going on in her dept and didn’t want to be part of it.
Ironically, as a teacher, o’connor would usualky ask for proof of work and not just be magically coming up with final answers, but that’s exactly what’s happening with the figures in her jobs dept! Her aims were this, this, this, none of them achieved, yet supposedly success. It just looks like one big scam to me.
Why are you putting up incorrect graphs about unemployment? They are all fake figures. Thousands are taken off the live register to manipulate the figures. They are placed on meaningless temporary job schemes to keep these figures down a bit like moving patients on trollies in hiding places when the trolley count is being done. This amounts to a propaganda article but we are not fooled. This only keeps the Fianna Gael drones in fake fodder.
They have caused the greatest division in our society ever! And them jobless figures are pure sh*te!  60,000 transfered to Tuas Nua getting the same benefits!
@xor: FG have destroyed society.
@xor: Exactly. Fianna Gael have kept their electoral base cronies in jobs by putting thousands on useless schemes. Its just to keep them in jobs will processing misfortunate individuals through their doors treating them no batter than cattle. Ironic as most of those in the jobs managing the unemployed all came out from under a cow.
Since the crash they have managed to save the neoliberal economy model. Despite the severe scarring dog bites of that economic model, we are all back rubbing its belly again. This dog is eating us out of house and home only to be whistled back by it masters at will. At this stage we have a fine stock market index, stabilised banking and a nice FDI portfolio, so obviously the jobs market is busy with mixed quality jobs. Corporate welfare and business deregulation is thriving. On the other side we have third world health and education services, crippling taxes and suffocating nanny state spewing out regulations to beat the band. Yep, they have been very successful in getting the world they want, now they can ‘live the life’ mediating between the extremes, a true political class.
@Greg Blake: Very well said and appreciated.
Any government determined to close down rural ireland ,force its young local population to immigrate ,Any government that has sat on its legislative arse and watched a housing crisis loom ,Any government which has  tried to ram down the throat  of the electorate the privatisation of water ,Any government that stands idly bye and lets the consumers of this country be ripped off by energy companies ,the insurance industry,and the legal profession ,Any government that has allowed scandal and corruption to thrive in its security services and demean the name of justice and integrity ,Any government who has stood over a health system in chaos ,Any government over dependent on foreign direct investment and determined to protect the  big corporations from paying their fair share of taxes  has one long road in front of them  convincing the irish  public that ALL IS well
On jobs, I don’t see the gov come anywhere near two major goals of 70 percent of jobs created outside dublin and finding jobs for 700,000 people returning home, yet magically, it’s supposedly meeting it’s goals! If it seems too good to be true…… and education, no major incidents but then I consider Bruton to be one of the few (perhaps the only) capable politicians in gov.
They been successful in falling from one scandal to the next, fronted by dithering clown from mayo propped up by flip flopping clown from cork, this government wasn’t elected by the people it was set up the gravy train lads. Don’t vote for these clowns next time round, if we don’t learn from the past we are doomed to repeat it. Look around the county is a mess. No more the Republic of Ireland instead a European car crash state.
Has the government delivered on its ‘ultimate goal’?To whom, Merkel, the EU or the IMF???
Government assistance, via Enterprise Ireland, required for indigenous export companies likely to be negatively affected by Brexit.This will be critical over the coming years as many Irish jobs – particularly in agricultural sector – are at risk unless new export markets are found globally.MMOC no doubt is up to speed here and already on the case.
Tell me this ..how can this gov defend the numbers concealed by low paid jobs in an age of the internet ? How is it that the journal has its obvious and rightful concerns but doesn’t point out the numbers leaving that cloud that figure of a reduction out of work?
Of course the U.K. And the EU want to look after Ireland and its best economic interests. Yeah, right.
@Elle Belle: national self interest will prevail. It is called real politik.
Ireland is part of the EU. We are not part of the UK.
@Tony Daly: “We want nothing to do with the backward looking idea of Sovereignty.We remain absolutely committed to the ideals of the European Union.We see the Union for what it is, the most successful international organisation in world history.” Michael Martin Dail 11/05/17
@Alois Irlmaier: lol. Self effacement on the back of treaties pushed through the back door ; now the EEC could have been successful if politicians were not involved.
@Elle Belle: We are doing what we do best,grovelling ,we could walk upright under an ant.
“Speaking in the Dáil today, he was keen to flatter the Irish, by quoting a Seamus Heaney, and said Ireland’s interest will be Europe’s interest too.”Bend over Ireland your about to be ridden again…..
Ireland’s membership of the EU has been overwhelmingly positive for almost 45 years.There is no reason to suggest that is going to change.
@Kerry Blake: Heaney must be the poet of the month, Prince Charles quoted a Heaney poem a couple of days ago while visiting the north.
@Kerry Blake: “We want nothing to do with the backward looking idea of Sovereignty.We remain absolutely committed to the ideals of the European Union.We see the Union for what it is, the most successful international organisation in world history.” Michael Martin Dail 11/05/17
There’s nothing to negotiate. The words came out of Barniers mouth that there must be customs posts to protect the single market. It’s over. There will be a hard border but it will largely be invisible due to technology such as number plate recognition software. Now, can we just move on.
So it will be a technological hard border that will be useless in reality. The EU once again showing they have zero understanding of the reality of a border in Ireland. The technology will be circumvented quickly and we are back to normal.
@Fred Jensen: how does number plate recognition software count the number of smuggled bottles of vodka in the boot of my car? How will number plate software prevent me from driving a muslim family up to belfast and into the Uk?  It has to be a hard border unless northern ireland leaves the uk or we leave the EU.
The answer is that no one knows.The present reality is that Ireland accounts for less than 1% of the GDP of the entire EU, UK included. We don’t have enough leverage to protect ourselves against larger power blocks.
@Tony Daly: well if things go bad the EU will be forced to bail us out again or pit an end to the euro!
We have a long history of punching above our weight.Just look at the billions in structural funds we received up to the noughties.
@Diarmuid: bit of a myth Diarmuid, every penny in structural funds can be counted against the surrender of resources, never even came close to paying that cost. While all this money/credit was being given to build some carrigeways, the whole centre spine of Europe was getting massive investments in road, rail, tunnels etc. Then our little investments paled in comparison to the moneys spent on East Germany and the enticing in of the Eastern European breakaways. We had a development spurt during the Celtic Tiger, that we will be paying for quite a while.No, what we got out of Europe was wonderful market access and protection from the wider world economy, we also got a lot of DFI that bigger states now want to grab. It still the best show in town for us, but lets not be delusional about it.
In other words the poo is going to hit the fan! (Again)
@Colette Kearns: The Pilot fish swimming with the Shark?
- “He said he would work to avoid a hard border, but said customs controls – something the government have campaigned to avoid – are part of EU border management.”And Gerry Adams said he wants a border poll within the next 5 years; clearly he sees an opportunity in the above. I want one too, but I think this is too soon.Can anybody tell me what would be wrong with the idea of Northern Ireland becoming a British Overseas Territory instead?I can see the Gibraltar negotiations having it end up becoming part of the European Economic Area. If so, there’d be no reason why Northern Ireland could not be in the EEA too.That’d effectively shift border management to where it belongs: in the middle of the Irish Sea. And we’d have a somewhat softer stepping stone towards eventual Irish unity.
The only free cheese is in the mousetrap
@Anthony Gallagher: Cats like cheese and mice like chocolate lol.
And it seems now, so do nurses lol.
@Alois Irlmaier: I like a bit of cheese myself from time to time but i am very careful ,lololol
Do you think he has any idea what a bunch of self-serving, deceiving, gombeens he’s dealing with?
@Dan Jacobson: With their own self serving agendas other than kissing Merkel’s butt.
We will be used as a rug to wipe there dirty feet in.
I do not want a Political Union, I do not want to hear Micheal Martin tell me that Irish sovereignty is dead and if that is the cost of the EU then the EU can f… themselves as can those in the Dail?
Time to exit the EU stage left….
JFK was using the White House as a knocking shop especially the Lincoln bedroom and Mandela was South Africa’s best salesman for South Africa’s arm dealers?Then Micheal Martin declares he doesn’t want Irish sovereignty today but POLITICAL UNION as in control from the EU…Is the Dail an Asylum now?
And then Mitterrand…http://www.ellopos.net/politics/mitterrand-kohl.htm
Boyd-Barrett – Mr Against Everything.  The more he shouts and screams about things the more I’m convinced he’s insane
Hold your breath; keep the scythe in the thatch and keep your powder dry.
A couple of english newspapers = ‘international media’ lol
Could really update the aul decor in the office there enda
@Marko: He did with his chair at the beginning…
If a hard border comes there will be people that will take paramilitary action. It will have an economic impact that will not be good for us but be an absolute disaster for the UK.
kenny has only two modes. kiss ass and i have full confidence modes. he should be demanding a lead role in the negotiations at least.
72 thousand million thank yous.
““You cannot wash this thing away, week after week – do you not get it,” asks Martin.”Martin’s charade of being in opposition is fooling no one.
Enda to answer all questions put to him with waffle.
@Les Behan: Enda answer a question that’ll be a first.
‘Taoiseach this is unacceptable, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to keep you in government until our poll numbers are high enough…..’
People should remember enda cut the amount of garda station in rural areas so is responsible for increasing rural crime
@Richard Doherty: closing Garda Stations does not immediately cause an increase in crime. You’re confusing causation and correlation.
@_doesnotcompute: He is confusing nothing. Criminals are targeting rural areas because there are no Guards out there and the response time is such that it would allow you to stop for tea while ransacking a house.
Healy Rae is absolutely priceless comedy gold.Who elects these gombeens?
@Paul Mc: We do…
@Paul Mc: other gombeens in West Kerry
@Paul Mc: The gombeens in Kerry obviously.
The man is an absolute disgrace. Has he got his earpiece on today to await instructions from some other buffoon?
@Paul Mc: “WHO’S YOUR SEXY DADDY???”
$cumbags talking about $cumbags, eh!
The only grilling this lying embarrassment is up for is his BBQ later today.
A credit to us all – the greatest Teashock ever…/o
Never learned to answer questions anyway.
Poor Enda it’s just been a total disaster for the bed pisser minimal damage now.
Think you meant Michael Healy-Rae, not Jackie
@Andy Rooney: there’s four of them¿¡
Bit unfair that the journal can say scůmbags and we can’t without altering it…
@Matty kinevan: exactly. Seiously If I put S C U M together it is censored. How pathetic is that for an online commentary.
I have no problem with Ms. Coppinger and her pals not standing for the prayer. However I have a big difficulty with her trying to deny the other TDs the right to stand for the prayer. Holding up placards and signs in the Dáil should not be allowed. If the government was more sensible it would have allowed the members to choose whether to sit or stand for the prayer. She is welcome to her opinion however the vast majority of the members have agreed to pray. Majority rules as far as I understand. We don’t need the tail wagging the dog.
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair: agreed
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair: if they all voted to burn 2 million in cash every day in the chamber while drinking don peringnon thatd be alright to?
Have to laugh at a member of the brown party blabbering on.. as for an attack on elderly people, unless they are judges or tds they are “not important” and offenders can expect a 2-3 day sentence suspended.
Is Jackie Healy Rae not dead no?
@David Wool: yes – from the neck up…
The f***ers who attacked that 94 year old man and his wife should be tagged and their wages/dole deducted weekly by a percentage of what they stole plus 50 % and given back to that man until all is repaid.  Offend again and the tag is never removed.
How is it that the report can use the word Scu* Bags but we are not allowed type it. Seriously I fear for this country. This level of censorship is pathetic. Its  a lies and makes a mockery of comments. Real life has curses and bad language so why is the journal terrified of the real world. Oh it might upset a few toffs is it.
For once I agree with Healy Rae
At this stage, who cares? Leo used to be a breath of fresh air but that day is long gone, so essentially this is just a popularity contest among the most detached people in society.
@Lurfic:  Ends is like the drunk aunt at the end of a party who has her coat on and has been in the hall for an hour spouting drunken shoite and making stupid remarks..
@Tony Skillington: yeah, but he’s at a party full of other drunks that are no better.
@Lurfic: best comment so far.
@Lurfic: Any constructive criticism no? Just smart ass comments.
Civil war parties – with their dated philosophies and ideologies – have had their day. Yet most continue to vote for them, no matter how inept and/or corrupt they are¡
@Paul Foot: problem for a lot of people is the quality of the candidates in their areas. If you have a good independent in your area you’re one of the lucky ones. Most of us have the likes of the Healy Rae’s, Matty McGrath, John Halligan etc and the really unlucky have even worse like Lowry. If you’re a centre voter your options are very limited.
@Paul Foot: So who do the electorate get behind then? The current three largest parties are essentially ‘civil war’ parties.
@Paul Foot: Because they are thick and stupid with no education. We must have the dumbest electorate in Europe.
@Jon Snow: We get behind someone NEW.
Will someone tell leo . He needs to appeal to the country not just the media and Dublin crowd… His zen will do nothing for him even if he thinks it will.. it’s not the media that vote en masse.
@LITTLEONE: Judging by recent “polls” it seems the electorate are highly inluenced by what the media says and does
@UpThereAndHereAsWell: could you link to recent polls,  thanks,  showing that Leo appeals to all in Ireland and would convince the electorate to vote en masse for him.
@LITTLEONE: Up never typed that Leo appeals to all…
@Fank Pulman:  double jobbing again good man.   Or do always answer for random strangers on the internet….  Re read  fank. Exactly what he said… In response to my comment…
Simon,Leo, Enda doesn’t really matter who leads the Irish Tory. They are all thatcherites.
@Les Behan: Yeah, just like Collins, Cosgrave, the majority of the 2nd Battalion and all of B Company IRA – all pro-treaty and no doubt Thatcherites every last one of them. Now remind us, what have you ever done for your country?
@Les Behan: Irish Whigs? What a thought?
I wouldn’t be surprised if Enda was still there at Christmas delivering his cringe message to the people!
It doesn’t matter who leads FG,corruption will still continue and nobody in the party has the bottle to do the job properly
look at those glasses 007, any cooler and his heart would stop beating.  Enda there is the face of a man willing to trow you under a bus while sipping a cappuccino
“Totally zen”, what a tool !
Anyone know where I can buy any zen ?
@Morizy: Found at the bottom of spirit bottles?
None of them have a pair both scared s#=t of the current leader so what chance have they got in running this country!
@Adrian: Enda’s make up artists will find him a cool pair of sunglasses and his advisors will come up with a new buzzword to be just as cool as Leo.
Leo was also zen in job as transport and health minister doing nothing constructive or compent if becomes leader people should remember this next election
A languid disinterestedness.
The quicker the better at this stage. Enda needs to move on now the Brexit positions are set in stone.
@Fred Jensen: Brexit positions set in stone? Not by a long way…
Leo, have you ever claimed travel expenses while the Dail was on recess? I’m asking for Zen.
He’s keeping everyone guessing  .but at  the end of the day  he’s is his own boss and in true enda style he will go when he wants to doesn’t matter if the country goes from crisis to crisis  .
Is that Father Romeo Sensini in the picture?
I’m starting to dislike this idiot and those Glasses jesus.
@Morizy: Glasses jesus = ?
@Paul Foot: modern day messiah pal.
@Morizy: you mean gabriel jesus (man city)?
@Morizy: And Jesus understands lol.
He is a parasite like the rest of his party. A right kip Ireland has become under them.
Leo Varadkar says he’s ‘totally zen’ about Enda’s departure…As long as Enda still has his Mojo back???
Now that is a Matrix image of Leo in that photo?
Nowadays it seems like any small politician will take a stab at Kenny just to get their name out there. Horrendous stuff when the leader of this country goes out and supports great causes like this but only gets lambasted for it.
Totally out of line to criticize the Taoiseach for making a personal effort to support this cause. No matter how many millions are spent on mental health it is not going to stop suicide which is far to complex to fully understand, especially when it is sudden, out of character and seemingly for no obvious reasons.
@Negan: she’s the founder of Pieta House, more qualified than you or I or even himself with regards mental health.I sincerely doubt she’s speaking out “just to get her name out there”, rather she seems to be one of the few empathetic politicians we have.
@Negan: he could show support without going. How about not cutting their funding or not putting policies in place that have the people feeling that the only way out is suicide. FG FF and Labour have caused a scourge of suicide over the last decade so excuse me if I don’t jump for joy because he turns up for a photo op and to pretend to care.
@Negan: yet he cut funding for mental health services
@winston smith: where as a greater number of people who do commit suicide have suicide ideation, depression, bi polar disorder etc etc. Try accessing mental health services here
@winston smith: Actually a lot of the causes of sucide are well known and that is why there is so many campaigns run. The truth is access to a medical appointments are difficult due to long wait times and counselling is not always offered and people can’t afford private counselling or aren’t aware of the sliding scale of charges for places like mymind. Cutting funds means less access to doctors counsellors and social workers. This government relies too much on voluntary groups to make up the shortfall in services. They are pushed to the limited and people end up on waiting lists and that turns out to be fatal for some .
@Stephen Brady: seems like someone didn’t read the full article…
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: read to the last line of the article and say that again
@Negan: I’m sure he’s got some guilt on his conscience. It’s amazing he got to show his concern for victims while he was visiting another country. He shouldn’t even have been there. Disgraceful man
@Negan: in other words u dont like whistleblowers &truth tellers
I can understand her passion and outrage but surely he was only trying to set a personal good example not a political one?  Wasn’t he?
Will Enda STILL BE Taoiseach at the NEXT Darkness into Light????
I did it because I believe it was one if best ways to get likes on my Facebook page.
@Free comment ratings: well I’d say the twenty five quid you paid helped Pieta House too so everyone’s a winner baby that’s the thrill.
#factcheck She was appointed to the Seanad not “elected” – still free to speak her mind but I think the Taoiseach deserves credit for supporting the Darkness into Light  walk.
@Mary Tully: by cutting funding for mental health services?
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: once again daithi, he in fact did not cut the funding but rather opposite to your claim, some €20million or so was actually added to the budget. So please, next time, do your homework before you spout sh!t out of your mouth.
@Negan: I’ll leave the shįt talking to you FG gimps, 35 was supposed to be allocated at budget time, head line grabbing, slap on the backs all around. Then when pushed it’s revealed ah no we just have 15m. Now jog on ye tool
@Mary Tully: she has donated her salary to pieta house i think that says it all really
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: I think you mean an extra €24.7m on top of the already huge figure of €850m…
@Negan: stop back tracking you’re making a fool of yourself
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: only fool here is the person who never read the full article. Read the headline went straight to comment….that’s what they all do.
@Veroníca Maguire: the fact check relates to Journal saying she was “elected” which is different to her being appointed. Her Pieta House charity is a life saver for many & I admire her greatly.    Just don’t agree with her views on Taoiseach joining the walk.
@Negan: you’re the one waffling about the combined HSE budget, they said there would be 35m allocated to mental health services, when pushed after the budget and the photo OP was over it was revealed that it wasn’t the case only in a blinkered FG shills world is that an improvement
@Mary Tully: Edna has some neck. He shouldn’t even be in Canada. Isn’t he lucky Maurice McCabe and his family are strong people. He’s a disgrace of a human being and his legacy will be ridiculed by people in the future
@Mary Murphy: if theres any justice it should..
So is it 35 or 15 million, this year and isn’t that cutting 20 from it. If it has dropped, from 35 last year to 15 this year.
When reading about the various DIL Walks around the world, these were two of the most disheartening aspects of the stories that followed. The first was the Taoiseach using such an important event to promote himself as a man of integrity after the way he and his governments have consistently abandoned those most in need. The second was the founder of Pieta House congratulating him for doing it in a tweet.
Neck like a jockeys saddle
Hopefully he has finally seen the light?
@Jarlath Murphy: And the whistle blowing too… lol.
@Jarlath Murphy: And the whistle blowing too… lol. Chu Chu…
@Jarlath Murphy: u re asking a bit much there
Ironic given that the psychiatric service is the most efficient in the HSE.
@Ian Moloney: you must be joking it’s the most useless – if you want to ‘ talk ‘ or make an appointment you could wait 3 months
@Eugene McDonough: its 2 years for neurology.
Not appropriate that Buttime said about Helen McEntee that she puts her “life and soul” into mental health issues. Her history and speaking about Darkness into Light.
@Paul Coughlan: what do u mean?
They are all hypocrits.
Ha! I’m surprised the senator had the neck to criticise an actual participation????  Jesus,  get over it and be grateful for the support!!!
He’s a hypocrite and an anyone else saying otherwise is idiotic, I suppose you don’t have to donate to a charity to support a Charity ??? #F#@kOffHe’s directly saying I support a charity, then putting his hands in the Charity basket and stealing their fund’s!!!!
@Mel Kelly: I think you mean putting his hands in the charity basket and handing them an extra €24,700,000?
All showmen need a show or a circus, have to keep the people entertained even if its only with clowns?
Darkness into light is a joke anyway and changes nothing in the mental health arena. Money for essential services however changes everything. Once again Edna picks the wrong option.
@Phil Swan: 150,000 people at €25 per person. Pretty effective fundraiser.
A bit eccentric on her part i think.
Found my daughter’s suicide note yesterday
Oh my God I’m so sorry spiderman. I cannot imagine what you’re through and nor do I ever want to.  God bless you no offence intended all I can think to say and RIP your poor child.
@John O’Driscoll: She’s still alive, thank God and she’s getting help but she was going to do it and I don’t know what to do now. Doing everything I can to stop it.
@Spiderman: I hope it works out ok, lost my father to suicide. I know the battle you have ahead and the abysmal services you have to try and do it with
@Daithí Uí Ciarmhic: Thanks. Sorry for your loss. I have lost many friends to suicide. I am doing everything I can to prevent losing my daughter
@Spiderman:best of luck to u hope everything turns out well
What kind of an eerie is this one, praising him on Saturday and then criticising him yesterday, that shows us something, but sure He appointed her to the Seanad so what would you expect .
Maybe he was feeling guilty? Oh were there cameras there, my bad!
Tough s**t. He should be questioned about it no matter where he is. Considering he’s the head of government why shouldn’t we be questioning him?
@tae: because what it the point of asking the same one question every time you get a chance it is lazy journalism when there are opportunities to shine a light on lots of positive and negative issues which are being or could be effected by the Taoiseach’s office
@tae: usually politicians wouldn’t be asked or address national issues when on state visits abroad.
O wrap de green jersey round me bys don’t hit me wid de tricolour in me arms shoot if ya must dis dyed blonde head but spare my party’s blushes he said.What a load of donkey’s. Did you go all that distance to tell us lies Taoiseach?
@Anthony Horan: Well Anthony perhaps if Enda answered the question he wouldn’t keep getting asked it?
@Anthony Horan: I think it’s bad form asking him was he’s abroad like that, keep that at home, like or not, he is representing the country at trade missions ,
@Trevor Connolly: He finds it tough to answer straight forward questions at home too.
@Trevor Connolly: hilarious attitude we seem to have. Don’t dare embarrass me in front of the neighbours. Sweep all the domestic stuff under the carpet and go full on begorrah and top of the morning. Even the article about the lack of water on inis meain was ‘oh my god, what will the tourists think of us?’ instead of worrying about the people who permanently live there not being able to shower. Presenting a respectable face to the outside takes precedence over everything.
@Marcus Philpott: Untrue. It happens all the time.
@tae: you just don’t get it do you? Its called cutting off your nose to spite your face.
@Anne Marie Devlin: suppose the official thinking is the locals can always go swim in the sea but we can’t charge the tourists for that. Yet.
It was a simple and honest question. It was a politically relevant question. The journalist was entitled to ask the question. It was fairly asked but not answered.Politicians are not just accountable at election time. Democracy does not start and finish at election time.
@Tony Daly: and every question should be answered? Kenny made the journo look like a fool. All me mates asked me to ask it and him to justify his trip abroad.
@lavbeer: on the contrary, Kenny looked shifty, evasive and dishonest.
@Tony Daly:The people of Cork have a right to know.
@Tony Daly: he is a politician! I didn’t see the live footage but let’s face it was bread and butter to him.
@lavbeer: It’s his bread and butter to not answer straight forward questions it would seem.
@Tony Daly: Does he ever look any other way?
In other words ask only a question he has an answer for or one he is willing to answer!!, sounds about right…..
@Kate Flaherty: Or able to answer….
The Terry Prone school of “truthiness”.
Eh that’s not how a democracy works Leo. He blatantly lied to the public. Then said he would be going. It’s now May and he’s still not gone. The media have the right to ask him that question until they get an answer.
@Deborah Behan:Yes they have the right to but should we not be a little above mud slinging on a global platform?
@Deborah Behan: where did he say he was going by any date? Any links? I bet not. This country really needs to start dealing in facts and not speculation.
@lavbeer: I don’t think Enda would recognise a fact if it stood up and hit him. Also in fairness the journalist was trying to establish a fact by asking Enda when he will leave……
@Deborah Behan: agreed. Had he addressed the issue thoroughly following his St Patrick’s day jolly then the question would not have been asked.
@Kerry Blake: so can you provide a link or just throwing out mob mentality remarks.
@lavbeer: April here….http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/enda-kenny-says-he-will-remain-as-taoiseach-until-at-least-the-end-of-april-35551780.html
Leo’s in the papers a lot lately.
@Jack Cassady:He can’t keep his trap shut.He Never could.
@Jack Cassady: he’s the papers golden child, I wonder why?
@Alan Cooke: minister for everything competent in none
@Marcus Philpott:The liberal luvvies see him as Ireland’s Trudeau.
@Alan Cooke:He’s not very good with the truth as witnessed when questioned on his 6400 euro photo shoot at the taxpayers expense.
I can see Leo’s setting himself up to rule in the same vein as Trump. Already challenging the freedom of the press
@Anne Marie Devlin: I’m too important to be answerable to the mere media on issues of public trust.
Normal journalistic practice – worldwide – until the decision is made. Tough.
@Fank Pulman: it’s actually not normal journalistic practice.
Leo doesn’t like people haranguing Enda about when he’s going to quit.That’s Leo’s job.
If he’d answered the question in Ireland he wouldn’t have been asked. Instead he lies and pushes it out further for his own benefit.
I see no problem with him being asked tough questions abroad.  We often see it with other World Leaders when abroad.
@Séamus Longshanks: and was he asked any tough questions? No. Canada trade agreement? Will mental health services be prioritised if Leo if elected? How much will it cost in additional pension payments if he steps down now? Why is he picking up 100k for 4 years of teaching?No. red top standard and then he has to make a story of nothing to justify the cash his employer spent. all self interest.
@lavbeer: good point.
Enda was embarrassed? Sure he embarrasses this country on a daily bases. Must be a novel situation for him to be in……
If the journalists of the united  states can ask their  president awkward question s in front of the media why cant we ?when your out front your always going to be a target so get over it enda .In office leo i am sure will show all the bottled he showed when he was health minister ,lolol
@Anthony Gallagher:I think you answered your own question there. We, well at least me, do not want to turn our media and politicians into what is happening in America
Ooh that’s right! Keep those uppity peasants in their place, can’t have them embarrassing their betters! Is that the game plan? Actually crawling around the so called “Elites” is exactly what got us into this mess! Therefore it is incumbent on us to challenge them and ask those tough questions at every opportunity! When they decide to have their Sham fight for the leadership they will be demanding wall to wall TV coverage, while they dance their way through a carefully choreographed script which will exonerate FG of any responsibility for the austerity impacts! The outcome is already decided Leo! Simon gets to wear the crown, so can we have our #GE2017 soonest? Always remember and never forget those who wish to steal your children’s water! Not a single transfer not even 10th choice! Phil Hogan scrapped in on the 13 count and Alan Kelly on the last!
@Jarlath Murphy: it doesn’t need to be confrontational all the time with them – totally agree
What do they mean try not to embarrass him – he is one – a laughing stock at this stage.  They know he’s going do just go for God’s sake…
Question them wherever they are.
In fairness all Kenny has to do is look at himself in the mirror to see an embarrassment.
It shouldn’t be asked based on location. It should be asked based on performance, regardless of where he is!
I wonder who will go first, Enda Kenny or Arsene Wenger?Its a hard one to call.
@Each Way Thief:  nice comparison and yes a very tough one to call. I suspect if you contacted Paddy Power they would publish that bet, it’s exactly the type of humour they like
In a couple of years he’ll be bald and the new Michael Noonan don’t say I didn’t warn yis’s
Leo you are way too sensitive, can’t you see from the guy’s record of lying that he is incapable of being embarrassed. Leo I’m no expert when it comes to leadership races, but as sure as hell being Mr.  nice guy to ek is not going to get you brownie points.
Kenny is a very unpopular leaser and his pointed evasion of these questions is proof he was lying when he said he would step down at all. The fact that he is being repeatedly asked at home and abroad only highlights his lack of integrity. His refusal to answer seals his image of cowardice and utter contempt for the people he claims to serve. And those lining up to replace him are far too focused on their own careers to face their current roles and responsibilities. Ireland is on a knife edge. Brexit looms large. Homelessness is growing rapidly. Hospitals overcrowded to banana republic levels. While our fearless leader dodges every opportunity to answer a simple question: when are you going to step down.
@James Elford: *leader
Leo never shuts up, always moaning.  Does he do any work?
I don’t like Edna one but I actually agree with him on this. We should show dignity when travelling. The last thing we want to do is end up like the US. There are always plenty of opportunities to stick the knife in when at home
@Nick Allen:Agree with Leo not Enda
@Nick Allen: Really? He’s been asked plenty of times about his leaving date in Ireland. Typically he can not answer the question.
@Kerry Blake:I agree about him leaving and I wish he would hurry up and go but I think from an Ireland reputation perspective I would prefer these questions to be kept to home soil. Enda, as much of a twit as he is, is representing our country in Canada. I don’t see the merit is putting our dirty laundry across Canadian media
@Kerry Blake: he is democratically elected for another 3.5 years – do you take interest in all internal FG issues?
@lavbeer: Yes when the decision may affect me as an Irish citizen. Do you not as a thinking person?
@Kerry Blake: how will it? I do think. Tell me how it might impact you?
@lavbeer: Because if I had voted FG under Enda’s leadership and he resigns then there will be a leader in place after the party vote who I as an Irish citizen did not vote for…..
@Kerry Blake: Kerry you have been a sinn fein troll for years here so stop suggesting you voted for enda! Sinn fein overwhelmingly lost the last election remember??
@Ruairi McDonnell: She didn’t say she voted for Enda?? And you have the gall to call her a troll ha ha.
The ex useless Minister for Health speaks about a useless leadership contest between two failures appropriately enough.Ireland with two civil war parties each one the same as the other. I’m sure Donald Trump cares if Tweedeldum or Tweedeldumber represents Oirland.
@John Dillon: long as the warbirds and torture jets keep flying in and out unmolested by the Law of Ireland’s broken and not-so-long arm he doesn’t.  He’s even bought a golf course and hotel near SNN City to keep an eye on his permanently moored little green aircraft carrier and the worthy damp anoraks running their protests near the chainlink.  Wonder if he happned to be visiting and they did try to get over would he make like the Canadian Ambassador in Glasnevin that time?
Leo likes Trumps style!!
@Rory: Anti Gay?
Idiot
@Nick Allen: just pro democracy….
So Leo the Liar thinks it’s “embarrassing” to ask his fraudulent party’s disingenuous leader about when he’s stepping aside for Leo himself to take over the same agenda? Is it ok to ask about the negative ramifications of CETA or how it will adversely affect the economic future of the electorate that he’s so quick to mislead?
He should be questioned everyday all day because he’s an imbecile who can’t answer a question.
@robert lester: what’s the point if he can’t answer the question.
Will he not just feck off. Muppet
There is something squalid about grilling Enda about his exit while abroad but Enda’s response was very petulant. Who does he think he is? God’s gift to Ireland? Can understand the journalist’s exasperation. Kenny is hanging on like a root.
Varadkar  has lost the plot.. of course the pric. is questionable
Leave my Enda alone
Would an exorcism help get rid of Enda???
LV is such an ass clown
He shouldnt be asked about anything ever firstly cos he has hasnt 2 brain cells( maybe what hes had for his brekky but thats the height of it ) & secondly theres a lot to hide we can assume this will be Leo s policy in future also
As that is like to a holiday???
Be a short stint for either ☺
@Willy Malone: Hopefully ! Someone like Leo could do a lot of damage in a very short time in power!Will Trump give Leo a little message of support ?
Leo IS Trump’s little message of support
@Willy Malone: FF will call the shots anyway.
@brian boru: What sort of damage? Has he the nuclear codes? Is he going to ban immigrants? Maybe he will take us out if Europe? The journal and dramatic exaggeration go hand in hand.
@Soccer T’s:  Soccer Ts – I get it very clever…..Are you asking what powers does the leader of a small country like Ireland ?  I am pretty sure a referendum is needed to exit Europe ?  If you don’t like the journal then why read it?
@brian boru:Trump would have no time for Leo due to him being Gay. I don’t like F/G but I would have a lot of pride if Ireland were to have an openly gay Taoiseach. We were the first country to vote for gay marriage, I like the portrayal of an progressive thinking group of people. After all aren’t we known as scholars.
@brian boru: The drama entertains me. Nice break from reality
@brian boru: Enlighten me. What major damage do your foresee?
@Nick Allen @ personally I would rather look at a politician’s track record then his choice of lifestyle for leader of the country job-In Leo’s case its an atrocious handling of every brief he has been given plus then there are all those shady sinister link stories I keep hearing –If I had to choose it would be Simon but then it ain’t my choice – which is a shameit would be great if the leader of the Dail got the same public scrutiny that other elections offer. Harder to hide those skeletons in the closet under the full scrutiny of an election
@brian boru: aye, SC has a much better track record than Leo, he might spend a few bob outside the M50 too.
It doesn’t matter who leads FG.  They’re  pretty much all the same. Anyhow, they wont be in any Government after the next election…
@Peter Higgins: The same was said before the last election. They will be in government again
@Peter Higgins: I don’t think Leo has been to any bildeburg meetings, that could sway it for Coveney as the party is based around secrets and lies.
@Peter Higgins: They will probably be supporting FF minority gov.. so no change here
I must say while initially I would have favoured Coveney, now i’m not so sure. His plan for “integration” of social housing with private housing has really put me off. If i pay €450k for a house and breaking my back paying a 30 year mortgage, i really don’t want my neighbours to simply have it handed to them for free or close to free. I see nothing fair about that. Complete segregation is what i want.Varadkar is also far more likely to reduce the high marginal rate of income tax.
@Fred Jensen:  Yes – Fred those in social housing should wear uniforms and have tattoos with a serial number on their wrist so its clear what they areJust curious is a fascist like you the standard FG voter or do you guys mix it up across the parties?
@brian boru:The only group displaying similar behaviour to 1930′s Germany are the hard left and their demands to be handed everything for free right now, or else you’re gonna get it…
@Fred Jensen:  Sorry Fred did the mirror scare you
@brian boru: So questioning where your money is spent now makes you a fascist? Seriously man you need to get out more. The guy didn’t suggest we get rid of social welfare. He simply questioned why so many people are getting state help with housing. I’d like to know the same!!
@Soccer T’s:Actually, i’m fine with a government program of subsidised housing. I just don’t want to be living with them, as neighbours. Which seems to be what Coveney wants. When will they learn, integration doesn’t work, and it’s not fair to impose these people on hard working private homeowners.
@Fred Jensen: that’s quite the chip you’ve got on your shoulder there. I couldn’t care less how my neighbours got their house, whether they rent or own. As long as they are decent people and don’t cause me any hassle. If you want sprawling ghettos then go live somewhere else.
@Stephen Carroll:I want private only accomodation in an estate. Is that too much to ask?
@Fred Jensen: Will never happen Fred. I think most parties agree that new estates need to be a mix of private and social. Based on our history of council estates and flats I think it’s he correct policy
@Mark Murphy:Is that not a policy?
@Soccer T’s:Correct policy for who? Name one benefit for the private buyers in an estate if 30% of them are council.
Who gives a s,,t……
Think you’ll find a lot of people care about who the Taoiseach of the day is….This leader will be democratically and transparently elected, not appointed behind closed doors by a handful of jokers. Your fellow Shinners could learn a lot from this, a mhic.
@Diarmuid: diarmuid you are the most annoying commenter on the journal over the last few years I been reading. I rarely comment but I was wondering have you ever left your bedsit and tool the cat for a walk?
Leo is much more comfortable with media radio and TV….Gives straight answers which catches the interviewer out….Leo even goes on Vincent Browne show….
I genuinely don’t care who takes over the backstabbing party Fine Gael. The fact that any of them are in it and standing by the things they collectively ram down people’s throats, exposes them all to be of low level.I do worry that one of these traitors however, will also get to be the Taoiseach – that will be then heading my country – my kids future country – into a future of Fine Gael’s own self adopted agenda – not one that was democratic voted for.When thinking of my kids future, in some respects to their rights and what they will state inherit, any traitorous FG member still acting as Taoiseach, will only continue to make things worse.Actions speak louder than words – and so far there has been many terrible two-faced, lying, closed door, backstabbing underhand FG dealings. All supported also, by the two current frontrunners. They even continue strongly pursuing the same thug bully actions, themselves, today.That’s why I worry about the next FG traitor that’s going to lead the country. I worry for my kids future under their care. So far they have done nothing to ease my concern – only daily make it worse. Their already stated future plans, are making sure of that (maternity hospital issue, privatisation agenda, Dail lying, public lying, secret company tax deals, EU army, more bin/service charges, whole water issue and more to come…).
If you want to know what Fine Gael under Leo Varadkar will be like then look across the water at Tory Britain.
Who cares policies will still be the same
on not Leo Put-In Vladimir Vradadakar.
Really doesn’t matter who is in charge. Unless the mindset and policies change . Then nothing changes.. considering both of these have been ministers in the fg government for years. Then they have stood over all the scandals, disasters,  agreed with everything that has been done. So wouldn’t make me vote for fg because of who was in charge.  Party has a mindset and that’s what matters. Not who is the boss.
Leo`s strategy seems at last about to pay off, the trick is now not to alienate the backwoodsmen  and red necks in FG, who are more likely to opt for Coveney.Leo has been courting the media for many years and they are all onside, first FG leader from an ethnic minority and first `gay` Taoiseach ticking all the boxes with the urbanites and younger demographic, it`s virtually in the bag.
I would like to know Leo’s view on the 8th. I won’t be voting for Covney.
@Deborah Behan:https://www.irishtimes.com/news/politics/existing-abortion-laws-are-too-restrictive-says-leo-varadkar-1.2040072?mode=amp
@Deborah Behan: have u a vote
The Bilderberg Group picked Coveney over two years ago.
Tweedly dum and tweedly dee ,it wont matter a hairs breath ,both lack vision ,they are much the same of a long line of career politician who are quite happy to fuddle along from one election to the next ,happy being well paid and pensioned public servants .but i guess leo is just that little bit smoother than coveny in selling himself .
Coveney , no thanks
@Zossima: reminds me of Paul Ryan
Coveney trying to appear the tough guy talking about not being “comfortable”with Citizens’ Assembly recommendation on the 8th amendment. SO WHAT??? He’s elected to an overpaid job to represent the people’s, not pursue his personal career ambitions waiting for the Kenny gig. Let’s not forget also he ‘won’t’ expose Ireland to anything that’s contrary to EU legislation – so we’ll not mention that annoying Apple €13 BILLION.This bully in waiting is out of his depth – God forbid he gets even a ministerial job of any sort  (and scandalous pension) in the post-Kenny era.
People have short memories, Bertie & Biffo, with the help of Charlie McCrevey and Michael Martin wrecked this country and handed it over to the Troika in 2010. In the last two elections FG were voted in with the most TDs so as per the constitution it is their responsibility to govern this Republic. People can disagree whatever way they like but FG won the last two elections, democracy rules in this Republic, not social media. So FG can pick any leader they wish and the Dail will then pick the next Taoiseach.
2 apes
Even The Pope would not save F G at this point  I’m sure Enda requires a few more air miles before he throws in the towel   as it seems the challengers are afraid as he has already outfoxed then a few times
Coveney has zero X Factor and has been a disaster as Housing Minister…a busy fool. At least Leo believes in something like the right of private sector workers to decent pensions. Too much money sloshing around Coveney’s campaign too…starting with his brother, CEO of Greencore
Really who gives a flying f¥ck ?
Co leaders. They can fail spectacularly together.
Figures released yesterday showing ireland is the fastest growing economy in Europe,  not surprising since we’re a tax haven and still inplementing austerity taxes. But all these politicians are failing badly in their individual ministries, coveney totally ineffective in housing and Leo’s dangerous means of reducing unemployment, manipulating the numbers, selling people’s private info to private companies and encouraging people to turn against and report each other. Two poor choices. Where’s our Macron?
Can we have a “we’re sick of the lot of you” option on the voting forms?
most boring subject ever??
They can lean of a cliff for all we care,put this useless party in a megre opposition next election
I’m sure Coveney is not surprised with this, nor is he worried I’d say. In a battle, I rather have Leo in front of me, I wouldn’t trust him behind me because if I had to look behind I might find that he had vanished. Not much of a gut there.
What’s wrong with Dame Edna?
We live under a parliamentary democracy. The Dail selects the government.
@Ben Gunn: More like parliamentary dictatorship.
@Ben Gunn: this is true, but the new FG Taoiseach will still tell us they have a mandate.
Saw FF were having church gate collection at weekend as i was passing the church. Must be filling the coffers.. be an election when ff decide.   Fg won’t have one.
@David Huston: dictatorship? Has FG assumed absolute power or is there still an election due in 4 years at most? If it’s the latter you’re talking shite.
@David Huston: A dictatorship where the “dictator” is a Parliament of 158 individuals, which includes an official opposition, bound by constitution, checked by independent courts and selected by free, fair and secret elections with universal adult suffrage?Cool dictatorship, bro
Mandate from who? 25% of the total 65% that voted for FG?…and that 25% gets to then thug bully the whole republic?This is some screwed up democracy by Fine Gael and those that still sick prop it up.
@Ben Gunn: I think we should start with making it compulsory for everyone to cast a vote ,there are over 30% of the electorate who do not exercise their right .
@JJ O Riordan: As your a fan of earpiece Enda I bow to your knowledge on talking shite,FG not accountable and always an inquiry away from an answer IS staying in power at all costs or a Dictatorship.
@Ben Gunn: Dr Manning for president  in jail for the truth
sf all the way corruption has got to stop
@Paul Fahey: A Bilderberg one if coveney wins!
@David Huston: what makes you think I’m a FG supporter? Because I corrected your bullshittery?
@JJ O Riordan: Yes.
@xor: But they are Goldman Sachs hiding under the blankets, aren’t they?
Until we stop voting for civil war parties (with policies and philosophies entrenched in the past) – this country has no political or economic future. FF, then FG, then FF, then…
@Fank Pullman: Great idea Frankie Goes To Hollywood. Let’s elect SF with a coalition of independents nuttier than a snickers bar and see what happens. See: Venezuela.
@8bitplebian: You think the FF/FG rotation is the best option then? One of well publicised ineptitude and corruption.
@Fank Pulman: Actually the economy is doing alright at the moment. Housing is the main issue that needs to be tackled but there’s no evidence that introducing anti-business hard left policies would to anything material to solve it.
@8bitplebian: I’ll take that as a “yes”…
@Fank Pulman: SF would be a disaster that’s for sure. The gov need to sort out housing asap. The economy seems to be doing well but we don’t need instability at the time of Brexit negotiations.
@Fank Pulman: A yes from me as well.
@KerryBlueMike: You think that the FF, FG rotation is the best option!?
@8bitplebian: This country has been brought to it’s knees twice and on the last  and most recent occasion went over the edge, we now live with slashed public services and a massive public debt and guess what SF were not in power at any time and yet the Nuts ( to use your phrase ) within the established parties managed perfectly well to screw it up and as yet are pursuing the exact same policies again, The days of doing the exact same thing over and over expecting a different result while telling us that any alternative will destroy the economy is over and the fact that your established parties now find it difficult to cobble together 50% when they previously sat around 80% should tell you that.
@Fank Pulman: yes fank too centralist parties much better than the others out there, who is it exactly you propose??
@Paddy: That we vote for the most capable candidates. We have made so many mistakes in the past…Haughey, Cowen, Ahern, Kenny, Burke etc. And the Catholic church should have no say in anything, except their own religion. Our main preoccupation is the criticism of others, and not accepting our shortcomings – we moan about Trump, UK, EU, Brexit, US, UN,  our politicians etc. It’s no wonder nobody has any interest in us – even our sports.
@Frank 100%. That is the fact of the matter as can be validated easily
@Nigel O’Neill:I don’t remember SF or the “looney left” steering Ireland towards economic ruin or did I miss something.No, it was FF championed by FG but lets just forget that my grand children will still be paying back debt created by the utter mess left by FF/FG and blame SF and the “looney left”. That’ll learn ‘em.
@8bitplebian because none of the policies of the Constant FF/FG government have been nuts!?! Is that your logic…fyi this country has the second Highest National Debt per capita in the OECD!!! Thats really great intelligent and progressive government right there!!!
@Floating 100% correct…the usual and tiresome drivel that these FG/FF conservative hacks spin to try and distract from the reality of a severely broken society heaped with a multi-generational National Debt that is the 2nd Highest in the Developed World and not a sight of any independents of SF in power during all that time. Only fools still believe that the constant government of FF/FG are the only credible option in this country any longer. Look at their leader lying his way through his teeth on a constant basis now and FG continuing the exact same economic and social policies that have failed the state so badly in the past. Only fools still buy into it
@Shakka 100% nail on the head my friend…they think we just forget all those big ‘mistakes’
@Nigel O’Neill: The thing which failed the state are greedy developers/bankers which the state lost control over. Undoubtedly we need ‘strong and staple government’ but I fail to see how SF can provide this when they are talking of a change of leadership, it is not even democratic party leadership when it is determined by one or two people north & south – we deserve better than that.
While an election would be welcome, who is there to vote for that offers a true alternative? Independents have shown to be easily manipulated..Labour…pfft…Greens..oblitorated …Sinn Fein…will go into coalition. Despair.
@Tony Skillington:  Solidarity are making real strides in becoming the left alternative in Ireland – The trial is like a rallying call for any Labour voters that still have faith in Labour to move acrossPersonally I fear if Leo and his sinister US connections win the race Ireland will never see real elections again
@brian boru: Yeah, it’s just aputy they have zero plans to implement any of the changes they want. Great at protesting though.
@Ed Magnier: pity
@Ed Magnier: I would give any party who committed to prioritising the needs of ordinary people over those of wealthy billionaires a chance, how could we get worse than what we have? Even today another story about data breaches from Gardaí and a civil servant in the Dept of Social protection. Rents soaring, homelessness increasing, bubble in full swing again, don’t  even mention health care,  and we gift the church a hospital! How could they do worse?
@Tony Skillington: If you dismiss a party because the would go into coalition, you are effectively saying you would only vote for a party that would be in perpetual opposition. What’s the point in that? You don’t get your policies implemented in opposition.The last time we had a majority in an election was 1977 and it doesn’t look like it’s going to happen again soon.
@Noirin Kavanagh: A lot worse. All those issues would have happened anyway. The hospital issue is blown out all all proportion. I’m not a fan of FG but I realise it’s about as good or better than some coalition of FF or SF and a few independent headcases. That could really wreck the economy in a way not seen since the 1930s.
@Tony Skillington: You could say that about the next few elections I’d say.Even when the choice is poor, voters deserve the opportunity to challenge their politicians.
@Tony Skillington: sinn fein will go into coalition yes but on their own terms not like lab or the current coalition of fg/fg….
@brian boru: US connections?
@Peter donnelly: not if FF are the majority partner Peter. We’ve heard too much in the past of how each party had its red lines only to be cast aside.  If SF are the great last hope they have to proved it to a weary and completely apathetic electorate
@Tony Skillington:I’d quite happily give SF and the Social Democrats my votes in the next election. Even if they get in for just 4 years, it might just be enough to destroy the duopoly of FF/FG which has destroyed the country for it’s people (except the wealthy and well connected of course).
@brian boru: So US banks then, Monsanto and the NSA?
Election for what ?To show that there is a ‘veneer of democracy’ here ?There is no democracy in Ireland outside of one vote every 5 years.To get anything done you either have to protest and protest loudly or be a member of the inner golden circle club.
@eastsmer #IRExit: We vote same monkey for decades, it really seems to be waste of money to be honest. If there is only one “democratic” option to choose, why we need all this circus every  5 years ??
There will be an election when FF decide to pull the plug on this sham of a government.
@ray.farrelly: Indeed and then there will be more pigs to the trough giving themselves pay rises and delivering more #shite government.
Can’t we go back to when we had no government What a wonderful time that was!
@Les Behan: I think we have had that since the crisis in 2008, the EU took over then and left us with a classroom of crying brats in the Dail?
I think FG should be excluded from the next election.
@Martin Ryan: Spoken like a true democrat.
@Brinster: no such thing as democracy brinster, doesn’t exist .
@Martin Ryan: It seems nationalism is a dirty word now as well?
There should be an election NOW not after a new leader is elected.
The opinion polls suggest that none of the political parties have the capacity to form a government.  FF and FG will not form a coalition and we will have an expensive election with no real change. Maybe FF in the grieving seat and FG playing the games, but for we the people no real change.
No, please no. Not another three months of vacant bloviation just so we put something more or less the same as what’s there already in place. It’s either what we have now or FF plus a few independent nutters along the lines of the Healy-Rae mucksavages. Which would be worse and people would be complaining even more than they are now. No, until a decent alternative formulates somehow we might as well leave them at it.
There should always be an election where a new Taoiseach is concerned.
If and when Enda Kenny steps down as Taoiseach the new Taoiseach should appoint him as the Minister for European Affairs. That way his long experience in Europe can be harnessed for the country. If an election does take place then a Government of National salvation should be put in place should there be a hung Dáil. It is most important that there be stability and unity of purpose in the forthcoming Brexit negotiations. A coalition of FF and FG might manage this if they can together have a clear majority. People might ridicule Enda Kenny but his government policies have improved the situation for Ireland over the last five years. We are now close to full employment which is a major achievement. All hands must be on deck for the next few years, we cannot afford the comforts of complacency.
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair: FGs negotiations in europe has yielded us nothing, any reductions in interest rates came by way of the Greeks, FG are happy to nod yes to everything asked of them by europe.  Why would they be best to represent us in the negotiatons about brexit.The only thing they have achieved so far is to have a foot note put in place that if Ireland is  unified then nothern ireland won’t have to apply for membership, why would they? east germany didn’t need to apply.As to government policy improving the situation in ireland, it is more likely that the several austerity budgets slowed the recovery.  Full employment? the figures don’t include those on schemes nor do they account for the huge number of the workforce that emigrated.Now what have they achieved? health servce is on it’s knees, homelessness is out of control, no plans to build social housing, all services slashed.  They are spending millions to fight the notion that large multinaionals might have to pay tax at even close to the 12% rate.  They are pushing hard on water to ensure privatisation. They are ignoring white collar crime costing the state billions while demonising the unemployed.
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair: Eh we already have a FF/ FG coalition with FG the minority party
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair: enda is already promised a job in Europe.
I am not sure that another general election would solve anything. Where I live we still don’t know who our constituency representatives are since they all seemed to have abandoned us as soon as the last election was over.
@ray.farrelly:  I don’t  remember the Irish government being anything other than a sham.
Why waste money what the alternative, Fiana Fail, there already in power and screwing us, Sinn fein, there all ready fed up of living on the average wage taking from their dial salary. It would make little or no difference.  power corrupts
Nope all another election will do is cost the tax payer millions and put FF back into power
We are supposed to live in a democracy,of course there should be GE.
Just swapping the cheeks of the same ar$e will not change anything :(
@Willy Malone: Yes, lets go straight for the crack itself with some headcase coalition involving SF, Solidarity and the Healy-Raes.
Even if there is an election, I think people forget who really runs this country, the ones you never hear about the political friends of each government put in place to carry out there wishes, A change of government should mean exactly that no friends left in high places!
What we have at the moment is people turning up for work some of the time and when they do they sit on their arse twiddling their thumbs .
Still waiting on that great democratic revolution that we were promised ,instead more of the same second rate parish pump politics ,fianna fail will pull the plug anyway ,they certainly wont be stupid enough to give leo time to bed in and hypnotise the soft irish electorate .martin will be itching for a fight because his tenure is slowly coming to a end also .so yes it will happen ,however same old same old .
Enda, In the name of god, go ! What next ? You must stay on for a crucial summit with the King of Tonga ??
@Dolly White: He decided to wait for the Second Comming before going now? lol.
There should have been an election when Bertie appointed his anointed one Cowen who continued on the disastrous FF policies that brought the IMF into the country.
I believe in the idea of a directly elected Taoiseach however that is not the case so no reason for an election, the Dail is elected and one of their roles is the choose a Taoiseach
Fine Gael’s only hope of staying in Power is to Keep Enda Kenny as Taoiseach!
@ray.farrelly:  I don’t  remember the Irish government being anything other than a sham.
Whenever FG or FF say is a bad time for an election, is obviously the best time for an election. Whenever they say no, they might spew some bs like the public has no appetite for an election, but it always means “we don’t have the numbers to win, so we might as well stay as we are, on the political gravy train, until the polls are in our favour. Why would we risk our cosy status quo with calling an election when the numbers don’t favour us winning”!
Yes which is the very reason why they won’t
I decided to vote no on this. Calling an election during a new Taoiseach’s honeymoon period would simply confer an undeserved advantage on the ruling party. The new Taoiseach should have to show his mettle over a few months first.
Surely that’s for FF to decide.
Parliamentary democracy or not, it feels wrong 1)Enda is the one who decides when he steps down, 2) they just pick a new guy from the same party (seems incestuous-like) and in the meantime, school issues aren’t resolved, I pray I don’t have an emergency and need to go to a hospital, etc.
We don’t need an election in this country unless we’re voting for change. We don’t need politicians. We need honest, hard working people of integrity, skilled professionals in fields of expertise, working in roles they’re qualified for and combining their efforts to enable progress for the country and it’s inhabitants. Our democracy has been divided into the naivety of the Left being too apparent to many voters and the sheer ferocity of the right with it’s willingness to sacrifice as many people to the profit imperative as their own self interest can manage. In the meantime, the result keeps ending up the same. Fine Gael or Fianna Fail wins, everyone else loses. We need to change the system to represent equality in our society, otherwise we’ll just end up in the same position again, a two tier deadlock of the rich political elite and everyone else, the people they damn to deprivation.
No point in another rigged election
The amount thick educated people in this country amazes me! its still going to be a ff fg fg ff coalition! What good will an election do beside give the kids a day off school .
@Adrian: People are not driven by common sense but emotions, they never question anything, that is why corruption and pedos got and get away with so much, even now?
An election right now will be like cleaning dog crap of your shoe, only to trip and going face first into a cow pat. In other words we are up to our necks in sh!te no matter which way we turn.
Can the country afford it with looking after bankers, German debt, Ministers wages and pension etc.
If only to vote FG and FF LB out.
Hard believe 36% of this poll are politicians!!!
Muppett of the highest order
@Eddie Byrne: Bit unfair on ordinary decent Muppet’s there lumping them in with Endless Enda….
@Kerry Blake: Agreed. Kermit the frog has just torched his enda kenny pyjamas in protest.
@Eddie Byrne: so….you think a muppet can save a crashing economy from the debts of an economic bailout? You think a muppet can slash unemployment rates by half? You think a muppet could have represented the country of Ireland in America at a time of such political unstableness there?
@Negan: Well the muppet was following the plan agreed by FF and the troika. So maybe we should elect FF??
@Hurt Stoogie: Trying to derail yet another article about kennys incompetence and dishonesty with your usual ‘noun-verb-sinn fein’ bull?Tut tut.
@Negan:Regina? Is that you?
Mysonginy? LOLLapgate was your lot charlie wrex/fifijamming/alan brogan/hurt stoogiehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVUSEM3Athw
@Negan: when Kenny and his clan arrived on their white mules remember the country had lost its financial control as the previous FF/Green abomination had bankrupted the country for decades and the ECB/IMF & EU were running the economy. The bar was set so low, Stevie Wonder could have steered the ship with that sort of outside control.
@Negan: My God you’re fairly naive if you think that clown Kenny did all that. You or I could have done the same thing by implementing the program FF agreed with the Troika.
@Hurt Stoogie: Why leave out Mary Boyle and Grace?
@Eddie Byrne:Do you mind, Enda is outstanding in his field. Ireland’s No1 scarecrow.
Oh this is too good. 3 of the usual interchangeable FG accounts appear together. One doing ‘QUICK LOOK OVER THERE’, one doing ‘NOTHING TO SEE HERE’ and one doing ‘NOUN VERB SINN FEIN’.Because that makes kennys latest breathtaking display of dishonesty and incompetence LESS cringeworthy LOL!!Happy Friday everyone.
@Eddie Byrne: Ten units of DFB couldn’t put his pants out.
@Negan: get a life and an education in economics you Muppet!
@Eddie Byrne: Do you not think  that the Muppets are the  Little Boys who are afraid to Challenge him.  LEO SIMON)
@Negan are you living in a cave or something? We have dozens of crisis particularly in our Public Services due to lack of funding plus unless you have been under a rock, our debt per capita ratio is the 2nd highest in the OECD!! Please dont insult our intelligence even if youre prepared to have your own insulted
@The Risen: you have a better chance being run over by a submarine as you are crossing the road as getting a straight, truthful  answer from this awful eejit…
@Eddie Byrne: a puppet more likely Eddie
@Negan: keep taking the tablets. Your on the same page as Edna
OK we get it, a few years ago you indirectly raised the issue with little or no real impact on the Saudi regime then recently voted in favour of the Saudis being promoted to a committee on women’s rights despite the fact that women are still treated as second class citizens.Thanks for clarifying that.Just as we thought – you’re a two faced spoofer of the highest order trying to pull the woll over the public’s eyes.
@Jack Cassady: the Saudis on this issue..Britain and the EU on Brexit…Trump on the undocumented in America..this worm tells us how great he’s been dealing with these issues and gets shown for what he is…useless. oh and by the way Edna..as a paid public servant the media ARE entitled to ask just when are you going to fk right off.
@Jack Cassady: and why do you think Irl voted for Saudi? Is this a matter of public record?
@lavbeer:Well I’m no psychologist but………..
@Jack Cassady: so you don’t know
@lavbeer:Have you ever known Enda Kenny or any Fine Gaeler for that matter absorb political flak when an opportunity to promote themselves is available?
@Jack Cassady: I was only asking if you were making up your comment on the KSA vote. Politicians are species of their own. You might have the qualifications required in fact.
Enda Kenny doesn’t realise that women don’t exist in the minds of Saudi Arabia men. Just used for procreation and personal pleasure.
@Paul Coughlan:Don’t forget Paul, they’re not bad in the kitchen an around the house either.
@Paul Coughlan: largely down to Islam than anything else.
@Paul Coughlan: “Enda Kenny doesn’t realise that women don’t exist in the minds of Saudi Arabia men. Just used for procreation and personal pleasure.”Sounds a lot like the Ireland enda kenny walked out of in 1975 and has been hiding in the Dail ever since. No wonder there hasn’t been a vote on the 8th.
@The Risen: How has your beloved PIRA treated women and rape victims shinnerbot?You can start with Jean McConville and take us through to Mairia Cahill…
Hi dermo the 8th. 7 diarmuid accounts banned so far isn’t it?Guess dermo the 9th will be along soon enough with posts like that.
“Risen / For Connolly / Were Jammin…”You denying the PIRA murdered mother of 10 Jean McConville?Or orchestrated Kangaroo Courts and the relocation of sex offenders?Shinnerbot, I’ve heard of Fake News, but not Fake History.
Christ. My 7 year old could talk themselves out of being caught spoofing more convincingly.
@The Risen: but your 7 year lives with you, so that wouldn’t be difficult I’ll.
@Hurt Stoogie: He also teaches people how to post in comments sections without looking like they typed with their forehead.I’ll get him to stick you down for a half dozen lessons.
@Diarmuid: Try and keep up the discussion is about Enda and his flirting relationship to reality and the truth.
I see dermo the 8th is back with his ‘QUICK LOOK OVER THERE’ drivel again.
Do you shinnerbots actually realise what Gadaffi was doing to women in Libya, while your beloved Provos did business with him?Perhaps you should indeed have looked over there…
@Dave Doyle:Try the electorate!Shinnerbots  trying to rewrite yesterday’s history never mind in previous years. And you  think  normal intelligent people don’t cop the crap coming out of shinner supporters mouths (I’m being polite there) ? You and the other gob take people for idiots, but we are not. We will remember (everything) that happened in the past.
@The Risen: Well talking of spoofing, like your beloved leader he also ‘was never a member of the IRA’
@Diarmuid so tell us what Gadaffi was doing!?? And how it was worse than what FF and FG were covering up here with the church!??…waiting
@Martin Fahy: lots of people from various countries have no respect for women and take advantage of women who are in a desperate situation.
He did, he didn’t. Same old codswallop.  As if what he does, or says, holds any weight.
What a W@nker!
@Niall Power: And his boss was Merkel and her boss was Obama and his boss was Citigroup…http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/barack-obama-elizabeth-warren-bernie-sanders-meghan-mccain-speech-fee-400000-wall-street-journal-new-a7707091.html
Enda met a man with two pints when he was in Saudi Arabia and they discussed human rights.
Enda caught telling porkies again, quelle surprise!, both him and Nóirín O Sullivan are a disgrace to the office they hold and the people they represent….
Weasel
More lies from Kenny,get rid of him.
In other words ….. he said nothing !
Human rights obviously includes women’s rights?  Obvious to some but certainly not the Saudis.
In Saudi human rights  do not include women’s rights!
Enda and Noirin seem to have something in common. Can’t work out if they’re both showing early signs of dementia or if they are both big fat liars
Enda’s doesn’t even care about the human rights of Ireland’s own military personnel not to mind the Saudis.The Irish government is fighting Irish military personnel in the courts to deny them the human right to know exactly what dangers they were exposed to during their military service.The Irish government signed up to these rights at the Council of Europe in 2010.http://www.accas.info/?p=560
In the name of God just go…
Please tell us you are going. We’ve had enough
Typical politician! IndaKinny caught in the spotlight once again. Seems he doesn’t like to be reminded on what he said or lied on other subjects as well.
Shrugged his shoulders, said “Women, eh?” and rolled his eyes.
Could anyone really believe that man would bring up such an issue. Even if he wasn’t on a trade mission he wouldn’t dream of stepping out of line.
@Carlin Ite: I suppose we’ll need another inquiry or commission to establish the truth.
@Carlin Ite: the man is a coward as well as a Moran.
Kenny meant the man with two pints raised the issue before he was publicly flogged in the local square.Good man Enda Up Mayo! If only I had a pint of harp said Enda wistfully in the desert as he had his bottle of Irish Water to sip on with his 400 servants nearby.
Why does he not deal with woman’s rights issues at home Donkey
Enda met a Bedouin with two pints, who told him how much he admired him for singlehandedly saving the Irish Nation despite the whingers and the whiners, the naysayers and wasters! Enda advised him that it was nearly time to let the” little wimmin” burn their Burka’s and show their faces outside the enclosure! Just imagine, he drooled how much better they would be making the tea if they could read and write! Your right, said the Bedouin, I’ll give you two camels for Regina and throw in the donkey for Frances’ ! Shure hold your whist, to cool your soup! says Enda I already have Phil Hogan, do I look like a Donkey Sanctuary?
@Jarlath Murphy: Haaaha. Very good. Unfortunately Edna thinks we’ve no rights in this country. Dictator Kenny. The lying toe rag. He’s not even bothering to lie well anymore.
To paraphrase..I cannot but conclude that slimmy Enda is one of the most pernicious little  odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth.
He’s a liar all day long. Lies lies lies.
@Government Sachs:A party of liars. It’s in their political DNA.
@Jack Cassady: they’ll need to extend prayer time.
Its not our business.
@Paul: Any acts of gross incompetence or dishonesty by enda kenny you DON’T do your little ‘nothing to see here’ act about ‘paul’?
@The Risen: maybe be the case but its not our business just like for example Trumps immigration policy in America and so on.
@Paul: Speak for yourself paul. As somebody with a daughter, I won’t be told whats my business when it comes to womens rights.
@The Risen: well just don’t send your daughter to Soudi and she will be grand….
@Paul: If you’re in the frame of mind that people SEND their daughters places, maybe you should start making womens rights your business.
@The Risen: a bit rich having a PIRA supporter lecturing others on women’s rights.Even the Saudis have standardars.
@Diarmuid zzzzzzZZZZ dude theres millions of threads on here about the north and SF etc…tell the FGbots paying you in fig roll biscuits that you are confused and are going to actually post comments on the related threads from now on…now theres a good IndaBot
Obviously women’s rights? Obvious to who? Did you not ‘specifically’ state women’s rights, because a lot can be missed in translation?
Prime example of an idiot speaking out of both sides of his mouth.
@Kerry Blake: a prime candidate for a reversal of the bypass he had from his a*r*s*e to his mouth.
The only thing he raised out there guys were  his thumbs.
Jaysus they can’t do any right by the public it seems . If they reveal they voted no and it damaged any trade agreements people would complain too. They probably voted yes though. But in any case what do you want him to do about the lack of equal rights ? It’s been like this forever. Wtf do you think Charlie Flanagan czn do about it ?!! Get real
@Ronan McDermott: We don’t need Arab money and that crap that they believe in trying to force it on ebryoje, It shall be very funny when they die and realise there’s nothing there lol
I wasn’t aware they were trying to take over Ireland . Must have missed that memo . I think Ireland should have trade agreements with almost every country – except North Korea maybe.
@Ronan McDermott: Charlie Flanagan is an embarrassing Moran. Wouldn’t expect anything useful from him.
@Ronan McDermott: Edan is treating the citizens of his own country both men and women with utter contempt. How many lies does he need to tell before he’s actually goes? Charlie Haughey didn’t even take half as long to go when found lying. Kenny is a turd and has no moral integrity.
I don’t remember him making a virtue signalling speech like he did when he went to the White House.
Tis a lying little shoneen he is cinnte.
Not really clarifying the position so.
Horrible horrible weasel Kenny.  Habitual liar.  Women’s rights….he hasn’t the balls to say boo to the Arabs.
Well Edna your stepping down is a secret too. You would like our country to adopt some of Saudi policy. No journalists and no women’s rights. Bullying families like the McCabe’s and not forgetting keeping the cream at the top for Mehole and your friends. Get the hell out of office you turkey
I was at the lunch yesterday and was extremely proud of An Taoisech in the way he addressed the Montreal Metropolita Chamber of Commerce. Only about 10% eere like me, members of the ex-pat community. He gave a wonderful portrat of Ireland in 2017 and I am sure convinced many business people that Irela d was the windo to the EU. He addressed civil rights and compared the absorbition of refugees in terms of population. Canada 35 million. Ireland about 5 million
@Patrick Short: well the emperor of no clothes fame did surround himself with fools did he not?
Stand up for women he said it himself he mentioned hum
@Anne Honer: human r
@Anne Honer: sorry! But humans are women apparently!!!
Any quid pro quo between Ireland and Saudi Arabia re votes for the Saudis and opetating duty free for the Saudis
What impact did people expect him to have?
I actually think that some people here have been hypnotized to go into a rant when they come across certain trigger words like endangered Kenny, bankers, bondholder or vulture funds.He is playing politics, as a politician I imagine that is part of his job! One thing to disagree with things on a personal level but there is a bigger picture to everything. Lecturing Donald Trump or Saudi Arabia will not change their minds but it could of very well had a negative outcome for our economy. Saudi Arabia being on the council is a good thing, will be good for them to hear how the rest of the world thinks of their antics
@Dark Knight: We’ve had enough of Kenny’s lies, spin and refusal to give a straight answer to a straight question. He doesn’t represent himself, or his party, or the beef industry. He is paid by the people to represent them. What position he took on behalf of the people requires a straight answer, not lies, not spin, not waffle.
@Dave Doyle: you are like a spoilt brat ranting because his parents has given everything he wanted. There is a budget you know, we went broke a few years ago, grow up. No matter who is in charge you would have a problem with it.What happened to when men were men and took pride in being able to look after themselves and didn’t look for a handout at every opportunity. The slightest bit of trouble these days and people just throw themselves to the ground, embarrasing
@Dark Knight: your first paragraph is bang on – mob mentality is strong at the minute. Usually accompanied by throwaway “facts” which can’t be substantiated and the irony being that the target of the abuse is usually accused of the same.
@Dave Doyle: Giving straight answers weakens his negotiating position in many cases. I don’t know if Irl voted for KSA or not but consider this – do you not think them being there actually increases pressure on them as they are in the spotlight?
@Dark Knight: what in the name of sweet Jesus are you taking about.
@lavbeer: its awful when one must face the dregs ole chum.
Could Enda not google “saudi castrating slaves youtube”, he could get 6 youtube videos on that?But in Islam gay sex is ok once one of the men is castrated, this brings this to male rape I suppose then.Human Rights, that is a joke?
May the fourth! Could we not just swap him for a little bit please!!!
That is cannabis for you lol.
The Independents don’t look like they’re going to rock the boat. It’ll be down to Fianna Fáil alone to decide how long this government lasts. No doubt they’ll only do it when they think there is most political gain for themselves.
@Tweety McTweeter: does anyone know how long it takes to qualify for a ministerial pension?
@Gerry Carroll: I was wondering too. It’s probably a factor. That and the summer recess!
@Gerry Carroll: It’s apparently 2 years. Wonder if they’ll become a bit more restless by then!
@Gerry Carroll: Two  years but the pension dosent kick in until you reach 65 years
@Tweety FF are in Government in all but name
Leo or Simon?, does it matter?, Muppet A or Muppet B?, makes no difference, we still end up with a Muppet
@John Kennedy: Neither of theses two dwarf politicians inspire me in any shape or form, It will truly be a sad day for the country where either of these two men take the mantle of leadership from Enda.Leo is a disgusting politician in my opinion who has had his eye on the top job since his time in the US and will use any one or any part of Irish society as cannon fodder to get there. Simon is a none event.  Both will do their utmost to divide Irish society in order to retain the reins of power. Hopefully an election comes before either one of these ruthless individuals come to power.Harris would be my preferred option in the ranks of intellectual nothings that FG offers.
@John Kennedy: But one of them would be absolutely fabulous darling.
Have either of them asked F F who they who they will elect as the next Taoiseach
Kim Jong Kenny
@Phil Keenan: He’s not well at the moment. In fact he’s ‘Kim Jong Ill’.
The journalist is doing his best to make a story out of it. Read it on the examiner website. “Lashes out” “frosty reception”. A non-story if ever there was one.
@lavbeer: Fair enough but the whole incident kind of shows Endas anger at the mere serfs questioning him on when he is going to actually follow through on what he promised to do.
@Catherine Sims: Enda Kenny is 40 odd years in the Dail. 30 odd years of that was spent as a nobody. Now that he has power and tasted the extra gravy, he will be reluctant to give it up. Enda will end up getting carried kicking and screaming out of his perch in the Dail.
Coveney. Simple maths. The majority whom voted against gay marriage, are a massive vote of FGs . The Catholic party , the one whom forces all to stand in the Dail before proceedings for prayer , having a gay leader seems a bit hypocritical…
@Willy Malone: would a gay minister not be the same?
@lavbeer: I’m sure he would be no different. My point is , as a Catholic party forcing , even docking TDs a days wages for not adhering to standing for prayer , is highly hypocritical of a so called Conservative Catholic Party. Does Homosexuality have a place in the Catholic religion ! Not in agreement with catholism , but pointing to my use of the word hypothetical..
@Willy Malone: you are forgetting that both FF and FG have absolutely zero issue with being​ hypocrites​.
@Willy Malone: so they have stand for a minute and utter a few words if they wish. Big deal. Every club has rules.On the main question Leo is a minister so FG it seems doesn’t have an issue with gay. Their Seanad leader is also gay.
@lavbeer: So you agree , hypocrisy​ is fully accepted in the Blouse shirts ☺
@lavbeer: every club has rules? They are not a member of the catholic club they are elected representatives and can pray on their own time if they want.
@lavbeer: so is Michael d
@Willy Malone: I don’t think they are on this one. No.
@Deborah Behan: Give over will you. It’s less that a minute a day when feck of them are there anyway. They had to reduce the number to 10. Too many easily offended in this country. Too much of minority driving the agenda these days. And expecting the majority to pay.
@lavbeer: Unfortunately, our population is far from being gay, quite depressed, in fact. Enda is like sh*t on a shoe, even if you get rid of it there’s always the ‘after-whiff’.
Muppet dictator enda,” don’t ask me any questions that I have to give an answer”
@Gerard Heery: Aithníonn ciaróg ciaróg eile….
@Donncha Mac Sléimhne: he was caught out again this morning about sauda woman’s rights issues
Kenny lashed out because “How dare the wee people of Ireland question our infallible leader”. Kenny won’t go until he is forced out. About time FG grow a pair & oust ” The self appointed “Great one”. Meanwhile Enda will continue to be busy brown nosing Merkel
That journalist probably thought he’d create a storm by embarrassing the Taoiseach but he actually succeeded in embarrassing the nation. What a gobshi#e.
@offtheball: embarrassed himself as he had to justify his costs by writing a story about nothing.
@offtheball: Embarrassed no one really, he asked a question that he could not ask in Ireland because of the constant deflection of FG to minor matters.There is at least a scandal once a week in Ireland and all we get from FG is – Oh, look over there, we have to say a prayer in the Dáil.FFFGLAB are really only ‘middle management’ here in Ireland, their masters are in the EU HQ
@offtheball: EH no dickhead kenny embarrassed the nation by his reply to a straight forward question which is one that is of importance to the people of Ireland and as usual couldnt give a straight answer….
@offtheball: Who is the nation, Is that a person. Oh you meant the people. I hate to break it to you but the people of Ireland think Enda is a Pric*.
@eastsmer #IRExit: we have to have a prayer in the Dáil, to show we’re holier than Fianna Fáil, while the Health System’s getting sicker, the TDs squabble & bicker, so let’s start a fight about prayer, in the Dáil!
Justin’s socks are a match. He’s so cool can he come here and take over? Even just for a few days?
Enda one or enda two neither has guts stand up to him ffs
I hope the journalist had a good go back! Enda’s a lame duck taoiseach now so this crap from enda should hold no credibility now.
I thought he had gone
What a sill man that McConnell, asking a Mickey Mouse question away from home. The Taoiseach was in Canada to conduct business on behalf of Ireland and we have a clown asking a silly question. Fair play to Kenny.
@Eugene Comaskey: do you really believe that eugene? He had every right to ask him any questions he wanted. Is there a protocol that says he are only allowed ask certain questions when you go more then 5 miles from shore. This man should’ve been sacked for trying to belittle the people of Ireland with his “mae culpa”
@Flynners01: Enda was absolutely right. Did the journalist think for one minute Enda was going to name a date for him there & then? No way was that going to happen so why ask the question unless he was just causing mischief.A good toe in the hole from Enda would not have gone amiss.
@Eugene Comaskey: ehh! The reporter in question is the political editor of the Irish Examiner. A paper with large distribution figures and incidentally the local paper of one of his rivals Simon Coveney Far from being a Micky Mouse question as you describe, will be detrimental to Kenny by his attitude and non answer.
@Justin Gillespie: lol. I’d say what goes on in your head is some crack. If enda Kenny worked for a private company he’d have been sacked years ago for telling the world about the soldiers standing at the atms. Them journalists are there to stop him from telling more lies.
@Eugene Comaskey: He does Fuc* all on behalf of Ireland don’t insult us. He cares about his ego full stop. We can’t get rid of the Cun*.
@Justin Gillespie: Yea its called accountability and your right Enda doesn’t know the meaning of the word.
Kenny… the accidental Taoiseach……Forgotten but not gone!!!!!
What a great country Canada
These lads are both sh*te.
Enda will go when Fianna Fail tell him to go.
Next should be Mary Lou McDonald if we had any sense. And I am far from a Shinner before the usual sock puppets start.
Looking at these two make me sick.
Oh no, enda has being telling more lies about raising women’s rights with Saudi Arabia when the fail records show that this didn’t happen. Another “mae culpa”. How much more of this can we take
To be fair it wasn’t the time or the place to be asking that question. It was never going  to serve any purpose.
Imagine going all that way to ask such a silly question–The Examiner must have a lot of spare cash
Anything trump can do I can do better, says Enda.
While normally I have would have no sympathy for Kenny, the media going on about this is soo boring for the rest of us. This particular journalist has been jumping up and down like a jack in the box with the same question for months now, ` Taoiseach:, when are you retiring?` .
What a clown yo travel that far and ask that question.Enda was right to challenge that.That said sooner he goes the better
@D’Murph: Why don’t ye Enda ass Lickers get a room.
Had a go a being a journalist.. Is there anything this man can’t do?
IA will not exist after a GE.
Oliver Callan says it all
Not true about the question asking Enda when he’ll resign. Journalist said that Enda had referred to Trump as racist etc. Asked Canadian PM about that. Really inappropriate gutter journalism and was cringe worthy to listen to an Irish journalist whose only objective was to embarrass his Taoiseach in front of the Canadian PM. Pure stunt pulling job. Mortifying . Enda should have punched the head off him!
In a government with promises far far away…I can’t believe that Enda travelled that far as well… To escape the same question lol.
He’s a totally useless Cun*. A dummy for a t shock.
This clown needs to get a life, he licks ass and talks shit a the same time, muck man from Mayo
At long last , shouldn’t all these seriously ill kids been put to the top of the medical card list automatically before by our government.
Partially returning what FG callously took away. I’ll never forget the torment parents of terminally ill children must have gone through to save a pittance.
Harris has still not given Vera twomeys daughter’s medical cannabis back Simon Harris is a deplorable minister of health Simon Harris should resign now.
Well done to the Campaigners. The government should back-date all the expenses from the interruption of the childs benefits, plus a 2 week holiday in the sun for the family’s past stress. I’d never have an issue with my taxes going towards that.
Bravo to all concerned.Fine Gael really are a despicable shower who have to be dragged kicking and screaming to the well of social justice and fairness on every occasion.
@Jack Cassady: Looking at the Garda Commissioner STILL getting full support from Kenny & his spineless cronies, justice whether legal or moral have no place in Ireland. When politicians AND senior Gardai receive ‘media training’ on how to avoid answering hard questions (both paid for by us taxpayers) that’s confirmation if ever it was needed that the really important thing is to LOOK or SOUND like you’re doing something, never mind the reality.
Any chance they could issue cards to teenagers who are severely disabled for more than just one year at a time ? It’s always stressful in case there is a break in cover around renewal. i suppose technically he is considered an adult now as he is off domicillary care allowance but his circumstances are neve going to improve and I just can’t understand why he doesn’t get a two or five year card.
@Catherine Sims: my son btw never got a medical card until I had to leave work and my income nosedived . He never had one through tout his childhood .
@Catherine Sims: Same here. As much as I don’t begrudge special needs kids, the fact is they’ll be all but forgotten when they become special needs adults.
How long will registation take? How many more months to at last join a que for outpatients, normally waiting time to see a consultant is about 18 months.But what minister for health will miss a photo opportunity when a leadership contest is about to start. 10 million is about half a budget, enough for a quick laugh and a joke to look normal.Is Harriss just bored in health or totally out of this depth. Searching for any positives to cover his lazyness as minister. Running abroad from a Claire Byrnes audience showed harriss leadership skills. Could not face those who daily engage with our health service. Has all he done is adding more people without increasing services. 18 months could seem like a dream when waiting times hit 36 months.
Fantastic,  well done. Now that’s something I am glad to pay tax for.
This wasn’t just Fg .labour junior ministers Alex White was happy enough to tow the line . One of 1st things they did after the election . A vile act from 2 parties without a iota of morality between them . This is why white lost his seat . Never vote Labour again.
Good News but Harris looks if he wants  to swallow the site at Vincents
CPO on the proposed site and no ties to religious orders. Do it right this time round
@Yvonne Gavican: CPO the hospital site? All of Vincents ? Or all of D4 ? What are you suggesting in this one ?
@Yvonne Gavican:  I am sure we will figure out who owns the land before we blow a half a Billion on it…  It takes a new level in incompetence to be planning a half a billion spend on building something without knowing who owns it -Never again can FG claim to be the party of fiscal prudenceA half billion here a billion there….. Sure its grand the kids will pick up the tab
And there you have it folks : “but said that there was a grey area around ownership.”The government are willing to force this through without question even though there is “grey area around ownership”.  The government are quite happy to hand this hospital over to the Sister of Cruelty regardless of what they’ve done in the past.
Easter Sunday was on the 16th April and our parliament returns on the 2 May. Madness when you think of all the dail staff sitting around for months doing nothing.  How can “new politics” make any changes when the dail is closed, debates carried out through media outlets by backbench spoofers instead of holding ministers to account in the dail chamber.
@leartius: so agree- totally mad.
Why are the Sisters of Charity on the board at all?
I don’t know if anyone watched the week in politics last Sunday but I got the impression that there are loans/ mortgages out already on that site, which is something the taxpayer shouldn’t be saddled with, I stand to be corrected on this.if this is correct who took out the loans and why.
I cannot stop thinking that ‘charity’ as in Sisters of Charity and ‘ownership’ are somewhat contradictory.Same goes with the ‘ownership’ and the pledged ‘independence’.I am just saying…
Long may he lead us….
@Paul Foot:Long may he lead us into the Abyss.
He’s welcome to start any day now.
6 years being taoiseach and the only leading he’s done has been to run rings around his own party of buffoons on his own party leadership status, which only shows the incompetence of the whole lot if them.
@Paul Foot:  If you think what Enda Kenny has been doing over the last few years is leading, I feel sorry for you, you’re obviously been lead astray.
@Les Behan: You preferred Haughey, Bertie and Cowen?
@Paul Foot:  “You preferred Haughey, Bertie and Cowen?”A corrupt politician, a con man, an alcoholic or a dimwit? I suppose if you aim low you’ll never be disappointed.
The finance minister can’t add (fiscal space and leprechaun economics). Varadkar tried to turn the public against the garda over pay and wants people to rat on their neighbours. What kind of shambolic leadership is this?  Coveney thinks holding pointless high profile strategic launches on housing every other week is gonna do something for him, harris likes playing with model buildings and adding zeros onto false promises, fitzgerald is just surrounded in controversary. What a bunch of incompetent muppets!
@Les Behan: All these illustrious Leaders were put there by us – a less than blameless electorate.
@Paul Foot  ” long may he lead us ” While falling over a plant pot running away from a reporter.
@Just Me: Plant pots do not run away from anything m8…
@Paul Foot:  I have been known to refer to the electorate as a “bunch of idiotic morons” on more than one occasion.  Still doesn’t excuse your lack of understanding on what actual leadership looks like.
@Les Behan: My point was that Kenny is a lot better than many of his predecessors – who were put in because of an obtuse electorate, many of whom vote based on civil war politics.
@Paul Foot: And Kenny’s party was’nt part of the civil war. ?
@Just Me: wasn’t* Who said that?
There is no grey area around ownership. The Charitable trust which holds the assets of the Religious Sisters of Charity owns the site/ land and it will own the hospital built on the land.Appropriate title searches can disclose the position concerning mortgages of charges.Land can be acquired and the mortgages paid off.
Only 2 weeks until their summer break and before you know it their on the chirstmas holidays
Endless Enda what a waste of space…..
Time to get over yourselves. There’s nothing you can do about it.The good Sisters own the land, they own Vincent’s hospital, there’s no issue here.The new hospital will have a religious name and a religious ethos, which is only right and proper.Hope religious symbols don’t offend you.
something crooked this way comes
What difference will it make.
@Rob Mills: not a great deal domestically, but I would be slightly less embarrassed of Varadkar or Coveney on the international stage.
@Rob Mills: Agreed, but I’d be very surprised if either of them EVER become Taoiseach after how Fine Gael have behaved in govt.
I think Mehole Martin will get the job, there all the same party now.
@Paul Fahey: Really those two who have no gumption to challange Enda you want one of those representing Ireland on the international stage???
@Frank Cauldhame: yet it looks like Michael Martin will be the next Taoiseach, says a great deal about our electorate. There is not a oleander of any of the political parties worthy of leadership, none of them.
@Frank Cauldhame: @Frank Cauldhame: then you underestimate the hypocrisy and stupidity of the Irish concerning voting in elections.sure it’s done for now anyway ,one of those two because fg are in? In any other country this gov would be being criminally investigated for their colluding in many scandals
@Rob Mills: Exactly, They  will still lick as* in europe and sell the Irish people down the river.
@Seán Domhnall O’Sullivan: Exactly. This country is neutered now. An embarrassment is all it is. They have no idea of what it means to have integrity. S*cum in power is all we have had for decades.
Zero difference Rob…just another way of distracting and filling up the headines with their friends in the MSM
@Rob Mills: It will make no Difference one is worse than the other and the only way a new leader will be elected   to lead the Government if F F SAY HE OR SHE CAN
Give it a year or two with Leo ‘Thatcherite’ Varadkar at the helm and people will look back wistfully at Enda’s term when the people of Ireland still had possibility of creating a society with some semblance of social justice.
@Jack Cassady: Aren’t you the one spouting support for Le Pen in France? And yet Leo is too right wing for you? A little confused are we?
@Ricky Spanish:The essential and defining difference is that Le Pen is a Euro sceptic who wants to extract France from the stranglehold of the EU and restore national sovereignty to the people of France while Leo Varadkar fully supported the Brussels imposed austerity policies which have wreaked havoc on the social fabric of this country for decades to come.
@Jack Cassady: Ah so you don’t care about “social justice” or if someone is Thatcherite or far right once they are anti EU you’ll vote for them OK.
@Ricky Spanish: Marine Le Pen is very left wing economically.Much further from Thatcherite economics than Leo.
@Big Lee: Yeah that’s a fairly common tactic of far right politicians. Doesn’t make them any less dangerous.
@Ricky Spanish.You’re not seriously going to argue that any of the pretenders to Enda’s throne are going to do so on a platform for social justice. I notice Leo’s headline grabbing ‘Dole Cheats’ public play for the role is taken straight from the Tory propaganda machine, a nasty and divisive campaign designed to  create a further divide between the wealthy in society from those on the lower socio-economic scale. Daily Mail tabloidese at its finest.Leo may be liberal on the surface but he’s a dyed in the wool Thatcherite at heart.
A puppet easily manipulated by Brussels economists.
@Jack Cassady: what’s wrong with going after “Dole Cheats”? Have you got other examples of his Thatcherite agenda? Because that isn’t one.
Of course Dublin liberals love him to death …which probably makes him a shoo-in.
@Jack Cassady: Wait is he too Thatcherite or too liberal?
@Jack Cassady: “Of course Dublin liberals love him to death”Dublin liberals love his sexuality not his politics.
@Big Lee: was wondering how long it would be before someone brought that up.
@Ricky Spanish:In theory..nothing.The reality though is somewhat different.The cost of all overpayments by his own department in 2015 was €115 million of which €48 million was due to fraud. The figures for 2014 were €124 million with €52 million due to fraud, in 2013 €127 million and €61 million due to fraud.He claimed that €500 million was saved from anti fraud and other control measures in 2016.The large proportion is through overpayments from within his own department.But of course that internal failure wouldn’t grab the headlines so crafty Leo gets tough on dole cheats.Despicable campaign.
@Big Lee:No doubt the homophobia card will be employed to silence any critical voice in his direction.Ireland’s Trudeau wannabe will be given an easy ride by the press.
@Jack Cassady: I’m just curious why people bring someone’s sexuality into a discussion when it has nothing to do with the subject at hand.
@Ricky Spanish:Well I certainly didn’t. But it’s undeniable that there is a certain liberal kudos in being gay among the liberal set and it’s inarguable that Leo has certainly used that particular distinction to his advantage. I mean it’s certainly not his political record that’s got him this far.
@Jack Cassady: How has he used his sexuality “to his advantage” exactly?
@Ricky Spanish:You don’t remember the fawning interview where Miriam O’Callaghan almost wore out a pair of eyelashes flashing the Baby Blues until Leo informed her that he was gay?He’s been surfing the LBTG wave ever since.
@Jack Cassady: so the very act of admitting he was gay was ‘milking his sexuality’ So glad we don’t have a double standard when str8 people relentlessly discuss their family life.
@Ricky Spanish:We seem to have sidetracked here. My issue is with Varadkar’s stated economic philosophy rather than his sexual orientation.
@Jack Cassady: What? Social Justice. What medication are you on. Kenny is the worst Pr8ck ever to lead this country. He should be shot.
@Ricky Spanish: When did the dole cheats collapse the banks and the economy.? I must have missed it in the news did I?
@Jack Cassady: Le Penn said to day, if elected next Sunday she will hold a referendum on membership of the EU, and let the French citizen’s decide if they want to remain or leave.
@Jack Cassady: Your clearly an incorrigible and unintelligent individual! Who does not his face from his arse!
Blueshirt policies of an eleitist society vision will never change no matter whom is at the helm….
@Willy Malone:In a nutshell.The party of privatization who copy and paste British Tory policy as a political manifesto.
Now there’s a whiff of a united ireland, no matter how fanciful or real Kenny won’t be going anywhere for fear of missing out on ‘delivering’ a united ireland on his ‘legacy’. The spineless FG sheep were put back in their boxes by the heavies in suits back in March with not a whimper out of them since.
@Gerry Carroll: I see no benefit in replacing Enda with either of the two front runners. Farrell is on a promise here – a junior ministry or his wife getting a party position. On his spare last year Gardai should be interviewing him and the journalist to determine who within leaked the email. The acceptance of such corruption points to senior involvement.
A new  fine gael leader wont make fine gael policy much different and fianna fail are excatly the same hense a confidence and supply agreement  between the two next we see a both parties get together to from a government both power mad at the expense of irish people
@Tommy Doran: Tell is more Insurane cheats cheat us all!!!!!
What difference will it make to Farrell, he’s for the high jump anyway…..
@Peadar Ó Gréacháin: I’d say Leo is prompting him, with the promise of a ministers job if elected. That’s the only way Farrell might have of being re-elected.
Noow which failed replacement would I prefer – minister for bad housing or minister for bad health ?
@Thomas Sheridan: agree – Hobson’s choice for sure. Not a cabinet reshuffle, more a cabinet cull that’s needed. Bring in young bucks (and does) with dynamism, don’t just rearrange the same deckchairs although that would mean years lost brown-nosing the wrong crevice.
Me Alan Farrell is also happy to cull seagulls and their defenseless young. People appear disgusted at cruelty to animals on a regular basis here on the journal. Mr Farrell is responsible for the same cruelty.http://www.balbriggan.info/minister-approves-action-tackle-dangers-posed-increase-gulls-balbriggan-farrell/
He will never go he thinks the world will stop if he does
Farrell has no substance only sound bites which shows him up as a fool…again
Alan Farrell is a cuck.
Move Coveney to Justice and deputy and send the lying witches flying. Enda has done nothing about it. Leo is right leaning but will be the first openly gay leader in history. Shame he had to give health to that baby with the big head.
The sooner the better we get rid of that clown kenny
@Ciaran Kehoe: what is the alternative?  I hope Mr Kenny stays for as long as possible.
Alan Farell is a Malahide Ross O Carroll Kelly type. Don’t listen to him. He is a member of the elite. I hope Mr Enda Kenny stays on as long as possible. Come on Enda!
All of them should retire.
@Frank Cauldhame: then you underestimate the hypocrisy and stupidity of the Irish concerning voting in elections.sure it’s done for now anyway ,one of those two because fg are in? In any other country this gov would be being criminally investigated for their colluding in many scandals
That failed school teacher will never leave. Pr*ck is all he is. You will never see a Fianna Gael government ever again. They should be shot for the damage they have done to people.
@Christopher Gardiner: I’m not a FG fan – far from it but the last time FF were in power they bankrupted the country for generations so they should be banished to eternity. Incredibly there are life-long FF and FG voters no matter what so the country is destined to flip-flop between the two inept versions of self-interest.
Had a red c poll last week asking who would you rather see as the next Taoiseach Leo or Simon, I asked if there was an option for an alternative cause I wanted to add a brick to the list! The questions were u believable, I answered all neither even though there wasn’t an option to do so given. On a side note she was also asking questions about rte and being English she couldn’t (understandably) pronounce the Irish words and asked me to phonetically tell her them cause she was struggling with people who couldn’t “get” them when she made a shape at them – surprised the shinners haven’t started a protest about it lol
@Mo: LOl shinners lol lol dummy.
Why is Farrell so caught up about Enda pulling the pin, it won’t make one bit of difference other than him being a ballboy under someone else.
So after centuries of oppression it might conceivably come to pass that a Tory Party initiative will be the catalyst that finally brought about a United Ireland.Who’d have thunk it?
@Jack Cassady: Make Ireland Whole Again!
@Jack Cassady: except support for a United Ireland is still FAR off of a majority. Won’t happen for a long time yet.
@Jack Cassady: Centuries of oppression in Europe perhaps. The Irish oppression over the past century could be described as ‘self harm’.
@Heroin Chic:Some people seem to insist that, now that the brexit vote has happened, the polls that happen now are all that matters.Except brexit hasn’t yet happened. The vote was a change, this move by the EU is another change and there will be a LOT of changes to come when the true details of brexit come forward. That’s before the implementation of whatever the final brexit deal – which will be a series of changes all of which will effect NI.The above is exactly the reason that there is no major push right now for a border poll. Those who will ask for a border poll have the sense that you can do it but if you fail you’d have to leave it alone for a while.Once the true implications of brexit come in – if they happen to be negative, that will be the time to push a border poll.
@Big Lee: Four green fields, A nation once again. North men, South men, Comrades all. Dublin, Belfast, Cork and Donegal. Love upsetting the Haters and Traitors, No need to name them, they know who theyare.
@Heroin Chic: They said the same about peace in the North.
@Jack Cassady: Oh Jesus the irony of it all.Poor auld Maggie must be doing cartwheels now…..
@Jack Cassady: rubbish! There is a little matter of NI people voting to join the South. Think they would exchange the NHS for the third world HSE? Not to mention the rafts of new taxes the crooked, corrupt government would lay on them.Get real!  Until the Republic’s standard of living is better than theirs it wont happen.
@Just Me: in your dreams
@Gus Sheridan: you’re forgetting that life under the Tories in NI who are hell bent on austerity is no bed of roses, and the NHS is not the be all and end all either
@Gus Sheridan: wtf gus having lived in both u r miles off    NHS is a disaster just like our hse
@Dave Harris: i have used both the NHS and the HSE, the gulf between them is enormous! Our nearest A&E is now 90 kilometers away after FG closed down our local one. Joining the south would be crazy for the foreseeable future, maybe one day..
@richard fennessy: the NHS is in a different class, I have had experience if both.
Where did you get the majority fact from?
@Gus Sheridan: I’d say it’s your nightmare.
@Pat Lonergan – more like Maggie’s doing Catherine wheels now given she’s likely on fire for all eternity. Ding-Dong.
@Big Lee:    Will Enda Kenny now be blamed for Irish Unity
@Jack Cassady: they don’t want northern Ireland and have been trying to offload it for decades, it’s a massive spiral of debt for whoever owns it.
Read this Gus and stop spouting lies and nonsensehttp://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-mcwilliams/star-trek-boldly-predicting-return-of-the-north-in-2024-might-yet-come-to-pass-35664966.html
@Scundered: northern Ireland should go out on its own sort out its own mess before joining the south, pure disaster the north
@Gus Sheridan: The state of the HSE is appalling, we all know that. But the NHS is catching up fast. I have two friends that suffered knee injuries that require surgery and their waiting time is awful. One had an accident in November 2016 and the earliest date for surgery is September 2017! She’s on crutches and in agony. The other hurt herself in February and her date for surgery is December!
@Just Me: CLub RCC would be rubbing their greedy hands together. How many hospitals and schools and land would they be “gifted” up north should a thing like that ever happen+
@Big Lee: when you say ‘again’ what period are you referring to?
I seem to be siding with Merkel on more and more things in the last 2 years. Never thought I’d say that!
@Chris Mansfield: I have to say I oppose everything Merkel stands for. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. So I am on May’s side. It’s time this we all agree bull ends at the EU. Germany are pretty quick to throw the toys out of the pram when they don’t get what they want.
@prop joe: Yeah but who knows what side May is on given she’s the 2nd biggest flip flopper?
@prop joe: so Irish people are happy to join a Superstate with no influence, run by the people who came second in WWII,ended in tears for them and it will again. Remember we signed up for the EEC and not this superpower.
@prop joe: At last Angela Merkel is consistent
This is the point where May and all the other deluded Brits gets to see their actual worth. They think no one can live without them. Guess what?
@Deborah Behan:Be careful what you wish for – you don’t think a weak Britain will have a massive negative impact on Ireland’s economy??
@Avina Laaf:considering that only 11% of our exports went to the UK last year, the UK could disappear off the face of the planet and we’d get along just fine actually.
@Avina Laaf: don’t get me wrong. I don’t want Britain to leave. I have family there who are all remainers and I am on the remainers side. But the leavers seem to have this over blown idea that Europe will not go on without them and have an over inflated idea of self worth and the bubble is going to pop.
@Fred Jensen:I wouldn’t really say that.  Ireland’s second biggest export market (and that excludes tourism – uk visitors are our biggest overseas market).
@Avina Laaf:I just told you, they’re only 11% of 2016 exports.Brexit will have no implications for tourism whatsoever. Unless the British become much poorer and the pound plummets further.
@Fred Jensen: That’s the point – a weakened Britain will see reduced tourism and less money coming into Ireland.Exports to Britain are worth close to €20bn – you don’t think losing a sizeable chunk of that isn’t going to have a negative impact on our economy??
Add to that, Britain has always been a net contributer to the EU.  When that money is gone the remaining net contributers will have to cough up more (leaving less money circulating in their own economies) whilst the net recipients will inevitably receive less (ditto), all of which will further impact Ireland’s economy.
You’re living in cloud cuckoo land if you think our economy isn’t going to be impacted by Brexit.
@Fred Jensen: not correct to focus on %. high value low volume goods skew the data. agri is lower on margin but higher on the number of workers. the uk is irelands biggest export market for agri. the uk imports 45bln in agri from the Eu. 10% of that ie. 4.5bln from ireland alone. the uk market is crucial for ireland.
@Avina Laaf: Yeah but there’s still the common travel area so I wouldn’t worry too much about tourism from the UK tbh.There are loads of effects for Ireland and people keep going on about the trade between the UK and Ireland. Personally I don’t think there’s much to worry about here. Either your local Tesco stays cheap or people start buying more from Aldi & Lidl.I can also see the EU making moves to support Ireland a bit more in terms of finding ways to offset some issues that will affect Ireland. Things like encouraging other EU countries to promote their products through Cherbourg/Rosslaire more or looking at Ireland as a potential location for some of the things the UK will lose.
@Fred Jensen:Trade between Britain and Ireland is 1 billion a week.
@gregory: That won’t change to much.  The EU doesn’t have the Agri land to support itself, they literally can’t produce enough to feed themselves so they will continue to need imports from the EU.
@Francis Devenney: Sorry the UK doesn’t have the Agri land to support itself,
@Tony Canning:With respect Tony, I think you’re missing the point re. tourism.  It’s not about whether there is or isn’t a common travel area, it’s about UK tourists having reduced spending power meaning that inevitably many of them will choose to stay and holiday at home where their money goes further instead of travelling to Ireland where they’ll find everything expensive.Also it isn’t about whether people shop in Tesco’s or Aldi, it’s about Irish exports to the UK being reduced.
@Francis Devenney:That’s not quite true.  Although the UK currently imports 40% of it’s food (much of which is the type of food that simply cannot be produced there, eg. bananas etc.) most analysts have concluded that with changes in practice there is ample land available to feed the current uk population.
@Avina Laaf: Yes, but those who won’t get as much for their money on going further afield may instead come to Ireland. Some of these things are swings and roundabouts that nobody can definitively say.As for our exports. The ferry goes both ways from Rosslaire.
@gregory:The UK market is not as crucial as is made out. The ROI exported €117 billion in total in 2016. Just 11% of that went to the UK. You seem to be giving agriculture some special status, as though its more important than the other sectors of the economy. It’s not. In fact, it’s the other sectors particularly tech, finance and pharma which is what have driven improvements in our standard of living.
@Fred Jensen:80% of all our exports go to/through the UK so if we are going to get along “just fine” as you predict then what’s all the fuss about?
I don’t understand why all the talk is of NI joining the RoI. Surely if reunification happens it is an opportunity to establish a new Republic with a new constitution and a new way of doing things. A constitution more suited to a modern, all island and inclusive society
@John Cotter: very well said
@John Cotter:A new socialist republic ala SF manifesto? Nice try, but no. NI would have to agree to be completely subsumed into the ROI without an inch given, just like East Germany in 1990.
@Fred Jensen: no mention of any socialist anything! And not only will an inch have to be given but many miles of concessions and changes. Police/Military/Education/Health/Transport/Government/Social Welfare and many more would need to be reimagined and redesigned. Like it or not I can’t see the PSNI just merging into AGS or the NHS in the north becoming part of the HSE can you?
@John Cotter:NI would adopt the euro and be a part of the ROI, just like Connaght and just like Munster. No difference. Why would anything have to be redesigned, the people of NI would have voted to become part of the ROI. We would have to give them what they desire.
@Fred Jensen: but could the referendum not be to reunify under a new constitution? Why do we in the north have to become part of the ROI when a new constitution makes much more sense?
@John Cotter: IT may well be the opportunity to shake the tree,we need a bill of rights ,we need open and transparent local and central government ,and we need a judicial system that takes pride in its work ,judges appointed on merit not cronyism .yes it could be the beginning of a long sought after modern democratic republic
@Niall Campbell: I’m sure that would be all worked out before a unity vote.
@Niall Campbell:Niall – because NI would require  billions of euros in subsidies by the government in Dublin. In such a situation, you don’t have much leverage to change anything about the 26 counties.
@Anthony Gallagher:We need that now never mind if we had a UI!
@Fred Jensen: East Germany was only separated from the west from 1945 onwards and NI has been separated for nearly 100 years. On top of that, the country was united under foreign rule for hundreds of years and the population oppressed. Germany and Ireland, are not the same and are totally different situations.
@Anthony Gallagher: you cannot really expect to get on open and transparent govt here, since when in the past 8 years especially there hasnt been any sign of it ….
The sooner Fuhrer Merkel is gone, the better, she has been a disaster for Europe.
@Lepanto: On the contrary Angela Merkel has contributed towards continued stability to Europe. Theresa May is a weak leader without a Brexit plan and continuously changing her mind. God help Britain over the coming years with Theresa May as prime minister as the economy slips down the pan. She will probably fire off a few missiles to show the world that Britain remains a world power. Pity she wouldn’t fire off Boris Johnson to the Outer Hebrides.
@Lepanto:The richest block of countries this planet has ever seen. Every country that joins reaps the benefits by becoming more wealthy. A promoter of global peace. A place where it’s citizens have the greatest rights on the globe. An area where every single country is now seeing growth. The EU is the envy of the world, and the greatest thing humanity has ever done, peacefully, united, together. We enjoy what everyone else wants, but some of us take that for granted, after centuries of bloodshed ending in the greatest calamity we have ever seen. Long live the EU, remember, you could be living in Trumps America, which is fast what the UK is becoming, a satellite state of the US, where cash is king and citizens are commodities. Be careful what you wish for, in a globalised world the EU is the only answer.
@John Smith: The EU is far from united, look around, the Visegard block for example Hungary, Czechs, Slovakia, Poland, they are not cow towing to Merkels EU, Greece and Italy the Elephant in the room, and now Brexit.. The EU needs a major rethink.
@John Smith: Wait until it becomes the USE then watch it become like Trumps America. Be careful what you wish for.
@Chris Kirk: Stability, have you seen what her open border policies have done for Europe over the last two+ years?? Blackmailed by Erdogan through the immigration deal, she’s no leader, she’s weak.
@Chris Kirk: Actually Merkel has only interest is a Europe with Germany in power dictating  all European policy. You are actually deluded if you think Merkel gives a toss about our little island. Merkel & co showed what they thought of us with the austerity we were forced to suffer. She is really popular in Greece too. Angela only wants the Euro as currency because the Mark would make German exports too costly not because it benefits any other country. She couldn’t get enough undocumented migrants into Europe regardless of the cost because she needed to boost the population in her own country not because she had suddenly turned into Mother Theresa & now Europe is suffering  with lives as well as economically.Angela is no friend of Ireland regardless of how much ass kissing Enda does to her
@Just Me:I’m happy to federalise Europe. What you need to do is look outside the EU and name a place better than it. You won’t.The problem with people who want the EU dismantled is they lack education and try to see the world based on emotion and pale half-truths and spin. They wouldn’t be happy if they were given a gold egg laying goose, they wallow in negativity, they moan and complain their way through life waiting for something they don’t know they want, blinkered like a pack animal, a real drain on the party. If you don’t like it you can leave, close the door on your way out to your mythical utopia. Xandu is not real.
@Lepanto: the vast majority of terrorist attacks in Europe have been carried out by people that were in Europe long before Merkel did anything
@John Smith: Thenn how come we have a two tir health system and suicide is rampant because life is unbearable for thousands here. How come unemployment in real terms is a disaster. How come we have 200 billion of debt that came from the bankers. How come the richest bankers and developers are now bailed out scott free continuing the disastrous property bubble that caused the collapse only to now have a new one. Wake up and smell the coffee. But wait you are probably well off so you have no idea what suffering at the bottom of the heap is like living in Ireland today. A two tier Ireland of haves and have nots where the gap between rich and poor gets wider and wider daily. An EU that made us sell our natural assets to pay massive interest rates on foreign bankers debts. Thats just for starters. Come down out of your ivory tower and join the real world.
@Christopher Gardiner:I suggest you look to countries outside the EU and compare. Employment is up, inward investment is huge, we just came out of the worst recession ever terribly managed by a Fianna Fail government. It’s about time we focused on the positives, we are a tiny country that punches well above our weight. You blame the EU for all your problem, you’d be better off blaming Brian Cowen and Bertie Ahern. Without a bailout we’d be a basket case now. But don’t let that get in the way of your bedroom economics. The UK is leaving, with 16 million people with less than 100 pounds in their bank accounts and 1 million people visiting food banks. They blame the EU for Tory mismanagement. And their suffering is only just starting, it will be a calamity for the UK.
@Christopher Gardiner: The answer to your question is because the European Union is not a federal system each member state has a very large degree of discretion as to how to run it’s society and economy. Blaming the European Union for our own mistakes is typical of so many people who don’t wish to look in the mirror and accept responsibility. Indeed one could argue that the fact that we have such discretion as a member state is one of the main reasons Ireland’s economy imploded. Perhaps if the adults had been in charge we would not find ourselves in this predicament. But please continue blaming the European Union for all our problems. In this respect you are very like those in the UK, the Brexiteers, who blame all ills on the EU. I wonder whom they will find to blame once they leave?
@John Smith: So anybody that disagrees with you lacks education. That’s ok then must hand back my engineering degree.
@Chris Kirk: Merkel has made Europe stable by opening its doors to undocumented immigrants, mostly young men who willOf course intergrate with the Reich?
@Dave O Keeffe: That and the fact that refugees in Germany hold massive respect and good will towards Merkel primarily. Some people are simply anti-muslim. they barely even realise they’re saying it most of the time.
@John Smith: you are deluded, I feel almost sorry for you.
@Gus Sheridan:You don’t need to feel sorry for me,  you should start with feeling sorry for yourself. Xenophobia is a pisspoor position to hold, the sign of a weak and feeble mind. You need to get out more my friend, the world is not out to get you, in fact it cares incredibly little about tiny you.
@Just Me:Yep, you probably should. But of course I’m not debating engineering, I know not at a lot about it, except that 3 months studying it made me realise it’s boring beyond belief. But I am debating the EU, and am specifically talking about being versed in that educationally. How engineering would help you in a debate about political economies I’m not sure, you’d be better to answer that conundrum. Here’s a tip, reading the Daily Mail and random facebook posts is not educating yourself.
@John Smith: Never before has the EU been more disjointed. Brexit, Le Pen in France should she win would leave the Euro & hold a referendum on EU exit, Dutch are far from happy in the EU. Extremism is rife. People can’t walk down the street without being mowed down by a terrorist in a vehicle & this is what you call peaceful. Merkel is only concerned with an EU that is run to suit Germany. The EU needs major reform. You are deluded if you think the EU is the answer to all our prayers.
@Tony Canning:Being opposed to Islamists, political Islam and the penal laws of Sharia law is logical, it’s common sense… Muslim is not Islam.
@John Smith: Germany tried that before. Didn’t work out very well for the Jews
@John Smith: I travel in Europe quite often and have no fear of other European residents. The problem is Merkel opened the bordersand now has made Europe less safe with so many undocumented immigrants. Of course if you mention this you are branded racist.I am  not racist , I am a realist.
@Lepanto: On what I see as the majority of comments wrt muslims on this site there is zero effort made to specify the difference.And any attempt to point that out often results in personal attacks and accusations of sympathy with terrorists.Language is important.
@John Smith: Sorry to burst your bubble, but I don’t read the Daily Mail, nor am I on Facebook. You on the other hand must have learned economics and arrogance from Michael Noonan and spoof from Frau Merkels puppet Enda.
@Dave O Keeffe:So you admit she did something?? Also I said the last 2+ years Dave, Islamic State said they would flood Europe with fighters and weapons using the migrant crisis, it has come to pass, France is still in a state of emergency also.
@Just Me: I’ll have it.
@Tony Canning:Do you know the difference between Islam and political Islam?
@Lepanto:https://youtu.be/VU-QDWBTnfc
@Lepanto: MERKEL  unlike  many other leaders in europe ,has been left to sort out the financial chaos left over from weak electorates and gombeen administrators ,one of the few leaders   that actually lives in rented accommadation
@Ciaran Kehoe: If Angela Merkel is no friend of Ireland then who is – Donald Trump perhaps..!!
@John Smith: We are not “a tiny country” nor do we “punch above our weight”. These are inaccurate and patronising cliches!
@Anthony Gallagher:What has living in rented accommodation got to do with it? Does it make her special?
@Gus Sheridan:I didn’t call you a racist, I called you a xenophobe. I’ve also traveled all over Europe multiple times. And I’ve traveled in Muslim countries. And Latin countries, to every continent on this globe. You know what you find? Humans are just humans, trying to get on with their lives safely, peacefully and prosperously. You are not a realist, you think you are but you are the same as many of the unwashed masses, misinformed. Europe is not less safe, how quickly you forget the IRA, ETA, Baader Meinhof, Ustaše, Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari, Babbar Khalsa, all terrorist organisations in Europe. And in our European back garden? War in the former Yugoslavia. And let us not forget World War 1, followed by World War 2. Europe is the safest it has ever been, there is simply more reporting through a much larger and diverse media.
@Ciaran Kehoe:People are unhappy because they are uneducated about the EU. They would be far more unhappy if they voted in Le Pen. The UK are going to be extremely unhappy, but they will still blame the EU even though they got what they wanted, out of it. They will get no special treatment and then will cry about that fact like spoiled babies.Name me one place better than the EU?
@Just Me:Arrogance comes from dealing with people below you.
@Seán Mac Brádaigh:We are a tiny country. 4 million people, half the population of London. Countries with tens of millions are not as recognised as us, nor do they enjoy the wealth we do. Ireland is known to everyone on Earth.
@John Smith: You are one arrogant, self righteous nonce. Get off that pedestal you have yourself up on. I’ve never read such tripe on here as I have from you. You epitomize a typical europhile who brands all and sundry stupid if they  are eurosceptic. It’s impossible to hold an alternative opinion and converse with the likes of you.
@Chris Kirk:Bolx… as far as I am concerned she tore up the EU treaty when she invited all those so called Syrian refugees in to Europe.  Did she ask the other EU countries if that was ok? No she bloody well didn’t!  So, on that basis alone, what’s all the fuss about EU borders (Brexit) when Merkel & Co had did not give a flying duck about those same borders 2 years ago?  If she can open the borders then so can we.
Pile of crap the sooner it collapses the better & we break the Eu stranglehold best of luck Britain hope we follow you out the door as for the north it will not happen unless you can get the majority of unionists opt in to united Ireland’s
@kenneth clohessy: go move to ‘Great Britain’ then
@kenneth clohessy:You level of argument is telling by the fact that your only use of punctuation is a single apostrophe used in the wrong place.
@kenneth clohessy:Make some effort with punctuation ffs!
@kenneth clohessy: go and live in this bastion of hope and freedom then. Oh yeah you can’t because they’re closing their borders and don’t want the likes of you!
@John Smith: Level of Argument????? Are we in college. Would you like us to use the Harvard method or perhaps Chicago. Will you go way and cop the F*ck on. Ye sicken me ye grammar police. Talk about insecure. So punctuation is you see. Sad sad man.
@Christopher Gardiner: John Smith is a typical blueshirt as arrogant as Noonan , it’s easy to tell.
@Darren Norris: you will want to move there when the EU collapses, its OK for the Germans at the moment, but think of ourselves first,you can bet your life they do!
@John Smith: The EU Grammer Police are here again!
@Deborah Behan: get your facts straight before you show yourself up!
@Gus Sheridan: ” its OK for the Germans at the moment, ”  It’s good for everyone. I remember what both Ireland and Britain were like before the EU and I for one don’t want to go back there.
@John Smith: That’s pretty childish. Obviously you have lost your argument with Kenneth Clohessy
@kenneth clohessy: Like you, I blamed the EU for our problems and realized over time. It wasn’t them, it is us and the shower we re-elect every time. FG/FF/L/SF, are all the same and nothing will change until we stop voting for them.
@Tony Canning:Mahmod Canning what a BS comment.  Which Canning are you?
@kenneth clohessy: well said the Europe is only for the rich jobs for the boys.irish make me cry will they ever grow up .
Ulster Unionists/Loyalists who voted to Remain in the EU would never vote in favour of reunifying Ireland.
@Big Lee: I agree, who’d want to re-join with us and look at all the corruption going on here. Then again, they may like that and it might attract them even more?
@Big Lee: You forget that NI voted to remain in the EU by 56-44 so if that were to translate again into a border poll they wouldn’t have much choice.
@Brian Ward: Were absolutely no Unionists part of the 56% who voted to Remain?
@Brian Ward: Brian I think what Lee is saying is that it won’t translate into a border poll. And he’s right.
@Big Lee: You could ask the same question about nationalists. No doubt there were people from both sides who voted against the flow but the point still remains. If people really want to stay in the EU then after Brexit the only way that they could do that is by voting for a united Ireland. Once the EU subsidies dry up and the focus on the UK will shift to the “mainland” it won’t be long before Unionists realize that if they want to prosper they will have to divest themselves from the UK. Farmers alone will have their income devastated when the UK leaves the EU and I can’t see too many people on the “mainland” being overly happy about forking out extra dosh to a bunch of mad paddies who like to run riot every year around July or over “thur fleg”.
@Brian Ward: You should know by now Brian that Unionists have a fortress mentality and Brits have an inbuilt dislike (jealousy) of Germany and all that it stands for.
@Stephen murphy: So cash for ash is’nt curuption, that’s ok then
@Chris Kirk: That’s true Chris so I wouldn’t expect a united Ireland anytime soon. I’d let them stew for about 10 years or so and watch them eye a prospering Republic from their decaying fortresses. I’d also remind them that Belfast was the most prosperous city in Ireland before partition and look at it now in comparison to Dublin.
@Big Lee: It’s not all about Unionists, a % of them actually voted to remain. They were part of that 56%. Democracy is about Majority.
@Big Lee: Seriously how would any sane person willingly moor themselves to Ireland. You may as well tie a rope onto the bow of the Titanic.
@Brian Ward: True. I read recently that when Haarland and Wolf was thriving not one Catholic was employed. Thats shameful discrimination. Who knows maybe Karma is in the offing.
@Stephen murphy:I agree, however the north is a total basket and is even worst, it is the equivalent of Cuba with Soviet support, take out the British 10 billion a year there is nothing left.
@ktsiwot: Get up to date friend – there have been many studies since whatever one you read which confirms your apparent bias – which have shown strong reason to believe that it would economically benefit both ROI & NI to reunify.
@Stephen murphy: dont think so.
@Brian Ward: please tell me why they would want to join the South?
@Tony Canning: I really dont think so….
@Gus Sheridan: I suppose it’s fair enough to think what you like – but it’s certainly unclear. I don’t think that most of us can make a genuine judgement on it unless we were all shtt-kicking economists but here you go:http://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/both-republic-and-north-could-benefit-from-united-ireland-1.2823081There’s this one above and there’s others from before which claim both benefit and deficit. I’m no economist so all I can do is judge it the same as most of us – and the conclusion seems to be, quite simply, that nobody knows.Which means it’s probably not really an argument either way.
@Chris Kirk: DON,T mention the war ,lolo
@Gus Sheridan: partition has stymied economic growth – one only has to look at the poor performance of Derry/ Donegal compared to say Galway.
@Gus Sheridan: Don’t think so, what? The UK, may ship NI off to the ROI and tell them row their own boat. NI, may be used in the Negotiations and may have no say in who breastfeeds them.
@Christopher Gardiner: That is a myth pumped out by republicans, there were many catholics employed in the shipyards. You should visit the Titanic centre and this is made perfectly clear.However it is equally true of shipyards in Scotland and the north of England in the 1800′s that the Orange order were created for recruiting protestant workers. Trade Unionism changed the status of shipyard employment and gave people equal rights regardless of religion. Liverpool dock workers of all sides joined together in the first ever strikes for better conditions and wages.
One of the biggest problems facing a united ireland is not nationalist or unionest its the fact that about 70% of the jobs in the north are public sector. They won’t vote for unity because of the rism of losing their jobs
@Gary Dorrian: And when the effects of brexit kick in along with a slash and burn tory landslide on the way? Things change – brexit will force a lot of change.
@Gary Dorrian: I don’t know where you got 70%from, it’s actually 25.2%.https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/publicsectorpersonnel/bulletins/publicsectoremployment/march2016
@Gary Dorrian Those public sector jobs will be severly cut when Britain finally leaves the EU
Lest if be forgotten, the EU was set up to avoid Europe descending into conflict following two major wars in the 1st half of the 20 century. There is a generation that forget that London was blitzed (to the ground) as were many German cities (and other places) and that tanks rolled though the European countryside where we now visit for holidays, weekends and stag parties.World War two is getting to far removed that there is a fear that it will be considered that “it could not happen these days” making Europeans complaisant again. It is not that long ago that parts of Eastern Europe were in turmoil and all is not settled yet in the East.I do not consider there is a danger of war at this time, but the idea of the EU was to make the countries so dependent upon each other financially that using force would be inconceivable and the people who want to break the EU should understand it’s founding and primary objective.Of course this is not saying that all is well in the EU or in the way it is run, it’s rules and it’s relevence to people in their everyday lives – but without it or something to replace it there is an danger that Europe could slip back to how it was in the early days of the 20th century – history is an important lesson to avoid making the same mistakes over and over again.
@Niall Ó Cofaigh: A good presentation, but the EU is not finished building it’s process. That will come when it’s declared as the United States of Europe. History as you so rightly point out teaches us valuable lessons. We seen what can happen to such a union when some states wish to breakaway. Civil war as in the case of the USA. There is no guarantee that the same could not happen in a USE. At least at present countries can leave without bloodshed. We should’nt allow the EU to become more powerful.
@Just Me: The lesson in Europe seems to be that every time a multinational, multiethnic state is created, the only way it can survive is through increasing centralisation until it tears itself apart, typically in a brutal fashion. The USSR dissolved in 1991. Since 1988, on the territory of the former USSR there are or have been at least 13 wars. When Yugoslavia disintegrated in the early 1990s, its former territory was torn apart by wars in Slovenia (brief), Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo and Macedonia. In both cases there was a tendency to remove the importance of a national identity and replace it with a pan-national one (being a Soviet instead of a Russian, Belarusian, Georgian, etc. or being a Yugoslav, instead of a Bosniak, Serb, Croat, etc.) We are witnessing something similar in the EU now with increased centralisation and a growing pan-EUropeanism being particularly espoused by Brussels/Strasbourg. Is history about to repeat itself? Hopefully not.
@Brian Ó Dálaigh: Brian, What you say about the breakup of the USSR and it’s Warsaw pact allies is correct. All empires throughout history eventually fall because of the dominant force’s wish to impose their culture on others. In the case of the USSR and it’s allies, Yugoslavia was not a member of the Warsaw pact and although communist, it pursued an independent line from Moscow. Yugoslavia was made up of different nationalities religions as was the USSR it could never hold together it was only a matter of time. The same could be said of the EU if it becomes the USE. Someone always wants to be king.
@Niall Ó Cofaigh: I believe it started with the european coal and steel alliance france ,germany ,italy,belguim ,then the european economic community and now the european union ,all done democrately ,europe has been a force for good ,the british media were always anti europe ,even though it was thatcher a coservative priminister who signed up and it was britain doing the asking .europe needs to be more united now than ever as the whole political and econome landscape throughout the world is changing fast ,a united states of europe  is a long way off
Europe near collapse. Have our stuges , the good boys any plan B which Will be needed soon. Punts be back …
@Willy Malone: Are you drunk?
@Just Me: The EU has about 10 years left in their tank and that is all.
@Alois Irlmaier: Which has been said every decade for decades…
@Andy Sinclair: no sorry. We now Know how the EU works. Its full of unelected suits so we don’t want it thanks.
Just found this wording in the Irish Times,‘ The declaration, known in Brussels as the “Kenny text”, is likely to be included as part of the published minutes of today’s meeting, and so forms part of the summit’s conclusions, officials said.’How did that useless Kenny get his name inserted into a EU document??? Thats all he cares about bloating his ego. Who is responsible for allowing him to do this. Talk about ar&e licking. Behind closed doors they adore Kenny because he could face up to the challenges of Ireland. Guess what these ‘challenges’ were. Being able to Hack into his own people by rampant destructive austerity which cut down the poor and vulnerable. Thats how you qualify for glory in the EU. They love him because at their beck and call he put the heads of his own Irish  people on the guillotine while the bankers pulled the lever.
@Christopher Gardiner: They love Kenny in the EU corridors because he is Merkel’s best boy.All he wants is a pat on the headfrom them. This guy should not be put in charge of the country’s future, what did we do to deserve self serving numpties like him, Cowan, Ahern…..  ?
@Gus Sheridan: There’s a gravy through in Brussels also, a much tastier and bigger one. There’s a place reserved for Kenny at it.
- “Leaders at the summit are expected to approve a deal that would see Northern Ireland automatically rejoin the Union in the event of voting for Irish unification.”It wouldn’t make much sense for them to decide otherwise, but I wonder if this will translate into more Irish tricolours being burnt on the Twelfth.
@Mick Tobin: I would imagine that it will result in more EU flags being burned on the Twelfth.
@Mick Tobin: So what if it does, it’ll just show the world how truly bigoted they are.
@Just Me: agreed but dont forget how priest ridden we still are in the south with bishops telling hospitals what they can and cant do.
@Gus Sheridan: Yes Gus but that is all changing down here. As for the Bishop that was a PR disaster. The loyalists up there however don’t want change but one day they will wake to a day when time has passed them by and the only option for them is change.
Be careful of reunification and our Irish negotiators.We could end up with a 32 county Northern Ireland.One last great giveaway!
@Ronan Kelly: This makes no sense neither geographically, socially or politically.And besides, while the rest of Ireland would (at least romantically) like to see a 32 county Ireland, Cork have been looking to go out on their own for decades so we can use the opportunity to finally get rid of them.31 county Ireland here we come!
The avg person Wheather leave or stay don’t want all this we just want to live and be happy the avg Irish don’t have a concern about the North nor to the people of the North and same with the people of Gibraltar and Spain all these problems are cause by big business and governments. We may of been poorer in the 60s and 70s but we all owned a piece of the pie now we have bigger piece but it on debit.  The only real problems we did have was human rights. Those days people lived all over the place without issues.  Now by controlling markets destroyeing local trade we see the mass emigration of people who don’t really want to move. Any tension is used to take eyes of what is been done or destroyed.
@JustMade Ireland:Trying to suggest we were better off in the 60′s and 70′s, be it north or South of the border has to be the dumbest suggestion I have seen on here for quite a while.It’s about standard of life, education, healthcare, opportunities available now that have never been seen before.Anyone can live like the 60′s or 70′s today if they wish, but at least they have a choice.
@JustMade Ireland: rose tinted glasses come to mind. Ireland in the 60s and 70s was an inward looking repressive kip whose main export was people. Since we joined the EU life has immeasurably improved under every measurement. I don’t want to go back to the past thank you.
So Germany, France, Holland,lay down the rules and the other 24 sheep follow.
@@mdmak33: Wolves in sheep clothing…
The British election should be taking place next month – the Tories are going to win comprehensively whenever it’s held. The only question now is the margin of victory. Many analysts/pundits reckon they could win around 400 seats (out of 650 in total)
@John Ryan: There might be a surprise in the election?
@John Ryan: I know that it’s an outside chance but it wouldn’t surprise me if a lot of young people vote labour as a protest against brexit although it’s a bit late in the day know.
@Brian Ward: why would they vote Labour?. If they want to protest brexit then they’re only option is the Liberal Democrats.
@Alois Irlmaier: surprise?  The Corbyn party will need a miracle
@Gus Sheridan: They said the same about Brexit, Trump and the Seanad vote here too?
EU PRESIDENT DONALD Tusk… Is a showman as it seems for the soon to be Political union that is really a banking union that is made more of ex big bankers from Goldman Sachs than any other bank except Macron who is an exRothchild employee.The EU wouldn’t exist without the WTO or American banks?
Did they even think to ask the Irish People if they wanted a ‘united Ireland ‘ ??????
@Mary Mc Carthy: There will be a referendum and the question will be asked. Hope that explains that for you.
It may seem the EU is looking after ireland but the EU and Merkel and tusk will be looking after Merkel and tusk and the EU first and foremost and the UK is big enough to look after themselves. Our idiotic clowns, kenny and Co, were used as pawns by the EU when the EU was bullying Greece. Next year, the EU could very well be asking ireland to contribute more to the EU to make up the shortfall the UK left, and our idiot clowns in FG or FF will be saying “how much”, and raising irish taxes to get it and giving themselves pay rises for it. That’s the reality, all this “how important is ireland bs they’re spewing” crap is just that, crap, makes kenny and Co look more important, but wait and see who’ll be paying for it when they eff up.
@Adrian: The only free cheese is in the mousetrap
There are no EU citizens, only citizens of individual soverign nations.
So far all its faults the Irish government has handled the Eu/brexit negotiations well.I know the devil is in the detail but getting the EU to acknowledge the unique relationship between Ireland and the UK is a plus. As the the EU stating that it will work to prevent a hard border.The statement on Irish unity is also welcome but we have to remember that unity can only happen with the consent of the people in NI, and that’s some way off.The reality though of brexit may change unionists perceptions in regard to a United Ireland
Our security forces are totally inadequate to the kind of riot situations that would come with absorbing NI.
@Rosa Parks: But would the PSNI not be part of the package? Would they not be our security services? they deal with large scale riots all the time.
I don’t understand all the talk about this. Isnt it obvious that if NI was to become part of Ireland that it would obviously become by default part of the EU. It would become only one of four provinces in the state and have no other significance bar that so of course it would be part of the EU as it would be joining a fellow EU country! Much ado about absolutely nothing.
Who’s gonna pay for the reintigration. Think its bad now.. look at West Germany taking back the East. Cost West Germans a fortune in tax hikes etc. Great a united Ireland bit not by bankrupting the whole country…
@Gerry Cummins: Don’t be worrying the banks have already done that.
@Gerry Cummins: Can we put to bed the idea that 26 counties will fund 32 counties? 32 counties will pay for, and fund, 32 counties. The whole island-economy will attract whole-island investment.
Why would france who was a victim of german ocupation support a president or prime minister who condones the holocust
@Richard Doherty: You could do with expanding that comment so that people can figure out what it means.Because for now it seems like a load of rubbish.
@Richard Doherty: what????
Ten billion a year plus the cost of a new civil war, that’ll be fun.
Em…did Mrs May not get the memo about the remaining 27 Member States she’s walking away from still being in a Union?  Perhaps Tusk should send a further email accusing England Scotland and Wales anyway not to mention Gibraltar and Northern Ireland (officially anyway) “lining up to oppose” the EU?This is childish stuff, intended to impress Tory voters who can’t read the Daily Mail without moving their lips. Move on.
Can the journal sort out the use of carriage return on mobile devices?The lack of it makes a lot of comments almost unreadable.
Why on earth would people in the north want to join the south?? Would they really want ff/fg,the vatican and dob and his pals ruling them? Were not exactly offering them something better!
Just a thought, but I think Westminster would be delighted to hand back the 6 counties, turn around and blame Europe,wash its hands of it and then sit back with joyous glee as Ireland rips itself apart financially and unfortunately with a lot of blood spilt. I would dearly love to see a united Ireland but I’m not sure if it could happen without horrendous casualties.
BEST WAY TO HAVE GOOD AMOUNT TO START A GOOD BUSINESS or TO START LIVING A GOOD LIFE….. Hack and take money directly from any ATM Machine Vault with the use of ATM Programmed Card which runs in automatic mode. email (williamshackers@hotmail.com) for how to get it and its cost . ………. EXPLANATION OF HOW THESE CARD WORKS………. You just slot in these card into any ATM Machine and it will automatically bring up a MENU of 1st VAULT $1,000, 2nd VAULT $5,000, RE-PROGRAMMED, EXIT, CANCEL. Just click on either of the VAULTS, and it will take you to another SUB-MENU of ALL, OTHERS, EXIT, CANCEL. Just click on others and type in the amount you wish to withdraw from the ATM and you have it cashed instantly… Done. ***NOTE: DON’T EVER MAKE THE MISTAKE OF CLICKING THE “ALL” OPTION. BECAUSE IT WILL TAKE OUT ALL THE AMOUNT OF THE SELECTED VAULT. email (williamshackers@hotmail.com). We are located in USA.
@Ashley Ashley:  Wow ! How cool is dat !
@Ashley Ashley: Here was me thinking you were located in Nigeria.
@Ashley Ashley: As good as giving your details to Isis…
Liars who tell lies because they know they are lies in order to get a certain reaction. You know who people are when they say or do certain actions, can yu ever trust anything from a liars mouth???
@Alois Irlmaier:
Who really gives a shit
And how many times are we going to have to vote before it registers, please?
@Marcus Tullius Cicero: Will be…https://youtu.be/PbkInTnNQ28?t=1m45s
@Marcus Tullius Cicero: One thing is certain, FG will delay this with committee’s White Papers, Green Papers, in fact anything that will put this off till the next election. FG and FF don’t want to be seen as the party that brought in abortion.
@Just Me: Hed delay it if he saw a snot on the ground, Any excuse to hide.
@Just Me: More proof, there’ll be an election this summer.
Hides behind assembly’s and committees while reaping their lotto style pensions and salaries.Once again the electorate ignored and we allow it to happen, decade after decade.
He’s like Johnny Sexton with the way he can bisect the ditches with that can. I’d say he’s talking about a nomination committee for the setting up of a review committee. I can just imagine what Oliver Callon would come up with- “Then it’s time for the serious business, Ringer. The Letter of Engagement with a certain Santa Claus, Dear Santa, Can I have 1 can of Lilt, a functioning government department, 1 more year in office…and a surprise (not an election now)”
@William 100% anything bar making real decisions that could benefit the people
@William Clay: He thought he be out of office by now, it was an exercise in kicking the can down the road for him?
Hopefully, the days of backward religious curtain twitchers deciding what women can do with their bodies will soon be over. It’s creepy that old Irish fellas still have an obsession with it.
New hobbies need to be found :)
@KMac: I have no problem with women deciding what to do with their bodies.  Some decide to take care of it, keep it healthy, some to abuse it with drugs or alcohol, some muddle along, doing ok maybe not quite as fit or as slim as they should be.  My problem is women deciding to flush out their unborn children, end their potential before they get the chance to even show who they are.  It breaks my heart that people are fighting to get my country to get this decision written into our constitution. And that anyone who raises a voice in the defence of the voiceless gets hammered.
Does anyone take any real notice of Kenny excuse for a politician excuse for a man sold us down the road joke
@David Harries: I doubt it “In 2015, the Taoiseach said there would not be a referendum on the Eighth amendment “in the lifetime of this government”. So either he was lying then or he’s lying now but either way, he’s a liar, just another fraud and he’s our “leader”? Honestly, it’s enough to make me want to launch a water balloon at the side of someone’s head.
@The Unknown Souldier: exactly he’s a liar a fraud and I can’t write the things I would really like to
@The Unknown Souldier: are u stupid there was an election since and and the CA and abortion was in the manifesto.
@Paul: Yeah i am stupid Paul, is that ok with you? Is it also ok if i just act stupid so i can write a jokey comment about another unrelated story that we’re not being allowed to comment on? It was a just a joke, vote much? Comedy police will be informed of my crime so well done Captain Buzzkill. Keep the good work up and the recovery going.
“Does anyone take any real notice of Kenny”Eh, you know he’s the Taoiseach?
@Paul: If you scroll down there, you’ll see meself and @Brendan McLaughlin are having a laugh about that same issue so if you’d like, you can just crap all over that joke too!
@David Harries: Ara, go on.
@David Harries: Kenny is a great man for kicking the can down the road – first with the Citizens Assembly to make believe that he is of the people. Then comes a committee to create authority and finally a referendum to kick it into the long grass.
88 citizens is not representative of the Country and the outcome of that waste of tax-payers money should be ignored.  The CA was a very expensive way of kicking the can down the road.
@Stephen Duffy: *99
@Heroin Chic: wrong only 88 eligible voters..https://www.citizensassembly.ie/en/Meetings/Ballot-4-Results-Tables.pdf
@Stephen Duffy: Just because they don’t agree with your bronze age ideology it should be ignored?? Grow up and accept that most people trust women to make the right decisions for their own situations. No one will force you to have an abortion if you don’t want one.
That’s why Stephen, what the CA recommended is not set in stone. They are only meant to be a sample of the overall population. In order to get the rest of the country’s opinions we need a referendum. Its called democracy.
@Stephen Duffy: now going to a “committee” where it will no doubt be talked to death. After that it will move on to the next stage of the conveyor belt with a referendum at some distant point in the future (maybe)!! Farcical waste of time and money.
@Rob Cahill: me and many others made the exact same point on this Forum well BEFORE the final outcome. Views of 88 people cannot be taken as representative of the Countrys view in much the same way that views of 1005 people used in opinion polls cannot be taken as such, even if the latter is likely to be many times closer to reality .. Also why on earth should the Pro-Life movement  be disappointed with the outcome of the CA.??  Going to the polls with the CA’s proposals will be a penalty kick for the pro-life movement that they are unlikely to miss.. Final point if your contribution to a serious debate is to tell people to “grow up” then you’d probably be better leaving the issue to the people on both sides of the debate that are capable of presenting a coherent and compelling argument.
@Maggie Elizabeth Walsh: Then why have it, that’s my initial point…
@Stephen Duffy: At least they didn’t kick the poe dow the road but it was close?
“Pro Life” pets got very upset on the last day of the Citizens Assembly.They still haven’t got over the fact that the CA acknowledged that the human foetus is not as important as the human being :)
@Oh Dear!: can’t see why.. putting the CA’s proposal to the country would almost certainly see the retention of the 8th..
@Stephen Duffy: Of course it would, And a magic cloud fairy created everything we see today. Do you have any realistic beliefs??
@Stephen Duffy: lets have a referendum then.
@Stephen Duffy: Are you still living in a cave, Osama and I bet the 8th would be defeated and removed.
@Deborah Behan: Let’s Deborah..!! :)
@Oh Dear!: Hardly we were laughing. The recommendations were so crazy and off the wall, that they won’t see the light of day. Those recommendations are to be ignored, more importantly they will be ignored. Brid Smith has already conceded Defeat in this regard, claiming that what will be put before the people will be nothing like the Recommendations. Unfortunately she did not say why they will be changed: they will fail
@Oh Dear!: said from the very comfortable position of someone who survived the womb.
@Jackie Caruana: I notice that as well.. all those that support abortion have been born..
@Oh Dear!: But we were all fetuses in our lives, does that mean we don’t count unless we are wanted??
“Many of the parties such as Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil have already asked their party members to submit applications of interest to sit on the committee. The deadline for applications is understood to be tomorrow.” Just Fine Gael and Fianna Fail? No mention of Labour no? That’ll be very disappointing to one lady who’s been very vocal on the issue, i’d say she’ll be “running for her life” to submit her application, probably while sitting comfortably in the back of a car.
@The Unknown Souldier: I would not consider a water bomb attack or a shoe falling off as trivial.Even if she went to Phoenix Park for a cup of tea and a dump after.Cinderella she is not!Maybe it was a brass shoe – like her neck.
Fifty-four percent of Irish young people, aged 18-34 would join a mass-revolt against the Irish Government if it was to start right now.The shocking data comes from a recent survey by the European Union, as part of their ‘Generation What?’ project.According to the data obtained from the 20,000 Irish participants, more than half would join a “large scale uprising against the generation in power if it happened in the next days or months”.
@keith mahon: I’m 50+ and ready to march
@keith mahon: what are they going to do? Stamp their feet and be outraged online with selfies hashtag grrrr
@keith mahon: all talk no action
@keith mahon: yet the fail to get off their collective arses when it’s time to vote!
@keith mahon: They left it 8 years too late, the eejits…
Ohhh look. Another committee.
@Shakka1244: One on who makes the tea?
He’s hardly permitted to give a response when he pawned off the problem to them in the first place. Kenny, how many years in the job now and he’s never made an important decision about anything, except a mickey mouse presidential voting referendum. It’s either do what Merkel tells him, go into hiding, or pass the problem off to somebody else. I suppose at least he’s intelligent enough to know he’s not capable of making the decisions himself, so why is he trying to hang so badly onto the job when he’s so bloody ineffective in it!
FFS another committee , can this dope stop kicking this into touch?
@Gus Sheridan: You never saw the film. The Rise and Rise of Michael Rimmer?
A complete charade. FF FG and the church in control of this state nearing 100 years ..Completely ignore the people and we continue to accept it. Every election we switch FF for FG or vice a  versa and expect change. We so need change of governance , FACT..
@Willy Malone: That defies me. I know why. Sorry to say it but that elderly generation in this country are totally ignorant. They know nothing about politics only a name beginning with Fianna and picking one. They have the country F^cked.
@Christopher Gardiner: let’s not forget Labour. They did a great job last time!!!  We also have a great independent contingent propping up Kenny. So if we rule them out we’re left with SF, WP, Solidarity (or whatever) PBF and Mick &Claire. What a sorry state of affairs.
With all due respect to Ms Laffoy and the members of the Assembly (who I am sure gave their utmost attention/ consideration to the difficult topics they debated………When you take into account Kenny’s track record how the hell would he knowabout expertise, competence and professionalism ?
Kicking the can down the road is a popular game in Dáil Éireann. Enda is an expert in it now.
THE CITIZENS ASSEMBLY WAS A FARCE FROM DAY ONE. A WASTE OF TAXPAYERS MONEY.IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THE MAJORITY ON THE ASSEMBLY HAPPEN TO BE ANTI LIFE, PRO MURDER OF THE UNBORN WHOSE DESIRE IS TO INTRODUCE A CULTURE OF DEATH INTO IRELAND.I  NOT ONLY WANT TO SEE THE EIGHT AMENDMENT RETAINED IN OUR CONSTITUTION BUT ALSO STRENGTHENED.  IALSO WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE X CASE RE-EXAMINED AND THAT THE TRUTH WILL BE TOLD  I AM ONLY INTERESTED IN  TRUTH.
@James Doyle : The truth is you need to stop with your shouting.
@James Doyle: Why are ye afraid to let women decide for THEMSELVES. You have no right to force anyone to make a decision about abortion I don’t agree with abortion but its not my choice. I respect the person to make their own choice. That what Christians should do. Respect people to make their own choices and back off. Fanatics in this country want to bring us back to the middle ages. Religion is a matter of choosing if you believe. If you do fine like I do but I will never tell anyone what to do with their bodies. Its not up to me or anyone. We should be supporting a person who has to make the choice then let them go and do it. Not preach hate with ultra conservative agendas.
@James Doyle: Jaysus I’d say you’re great craic at cocktail partys.
@Francis Mc Carthy: I agree. He love the I want this and I want that. Strange like hes not even a woman so its not he’s business.
@The Risen: ha ha slap of a statue in the head we’d get.
@James Doyle: Shouting and capital letters, doesn’t make your opinion right and maybe women should have the power to sterilize you.
@James Doyle: stop shouting you muppet
@Christopher Gardiner: he must be a babe magnet!
@Christopher Gardiner: You have just contradicted yourself. On the one hand you say “back off” and yet we should support them. Which is it?
@Francis Mc Carthy: PLEASE EXPLAIN THE MEANING OF  “SHOUTING” AS I FOR ONE GENUINELY DO NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU MEAN.
@Christopher Gardiner:  I HAVE EVERY RIGHT TO CONDEMN MURDER.  I ALSDO FIRMLY BELIEVE IN THE TEN COMMANDMENTS OF OUR CREATOR, GOD ALMIGHTY.  5th COMMANDMENT “THOU SHALT NOT KILL”
@Stephen murphy: STEPHEN I HAVE ALREADY ASKED TO BE INFORMED ABOUT THIS SO CALLED  “SHOUTING”  CAN YOPU PLEASE ENLIGHTENME AS TO WHAT EXACTLY IT MEANS?
@Christopher Gardiner:
@Stephen murphy: 1.  I DID NOT GIVE AN OPINION, I GAVE THE TRUTH.CHRIST WAS LAUGHED AT WHEN HE WAS ON EARTH AND MANY DID WANT TO ACCEPT THE TRUTH.2. TODAY, IN OUR SO CALLED MODERN SOCIETY, PEOPLE EITHER REJECT THE TRUTH OR DO NOT WANT TO HEAR IT.3. CAPITAL LETTERS.  THERE ARE, UNFORTUNATELY, MANY WHO READ COMMENTS BUT WITH GREAT DIFFICULTY BECAUSE OF EYESIGHT PROBLEMS.4.  I COPY ARTICLES WITH NORMAL PRINT , THEN PASTE THEM TO “WORD”, ENLARGE THE ARTICLES SO THAT I CAN READ IT,.  UNFORTUNATELY FOR ME , I AS ALREADY MENTIONED ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE, HAVE EYESIGHT PROBLEMS.5. TAKE MY ADVICE AND MAKE SURE YOU GET YOUR EYES EXAMINED FROM TIME TO TIME.  PLEASE TAKE CARE OF YOUR EYESIGHT.
All that coward kenny wanted to do was kick it down the road and he did that. He hasn’t the intelligence of an amoeba. I never thought it was possible to have a more incompetent man as leader after cowen but he even beat him. Thick as a brick in this country and you go far. Criticise how corrupt it is and watch your career go down the drain. Ar&e lickers rule this country.
@James Doyle:  Get a grip and keep your nose out of women’s wombs.  The only reason you think it is a farce is because it didn’t go the way you wanted it to.  I am sure if the result had been a different one it would have been  broadcast from the rooftops by you and your ilk.  Oh dear sounds like “sour grapes” all over again.
Ah here a committee followed by more than likely a sub committee. The longer they leave it the harder it will be to introduce as Fine Gael will not want to introduce abortion closer to the next election.
Kenny should just get this to a referendum ASAP and get it over with. He’ll be gone by the time the Dail returns from it’s three month Summer break anyway so nothing for him to lose personally.
A committee?? WTF – what’s the Citizen Assembly?? Looks a lot like Lisbon Treaty – get the answer you don’t want , go again!
@Gerry Carroll: He thought he would be gone before anyone took a decision on this, so he set up another one to kick the can down the road again, if not again???
Whats that gobs**** doing on the television!!!!!!
@DeFonz: Once it is not taking a dump, then he should be fine lol.
When is he resigning??? Bloody disgrace he’s hanging around like a rotten smell
@Mary Murphy: Will have to burn his bones now lol.
Most cowardly government ever
Yes enda create more middle class jobs, dangle them in front of Irish citizens and then bring in staff from all four corners of the globe to take them
@Dave O’Hanlon: funny how idiots can squeeze their racist nonsense into any story
@Lord Lucan:What’s racist about his comment? It’s an undeniable fact that many of the ‘middle class’ jobs created in the financial and tech sectors have been filled by migrants.Granted, migrants fill them due to notable gaps in the Irish labour force when it comes to foreign languages and coding but little has been done to address that fact in the education system.
@Jason Culligan: Those tech jobs create an equal or greater number of jobs in the wider economy, whether they’re filled by Irish people or foreigners.
@Dave O’Hanlon: Schrodinger’s immigrant; Simultaneously stealing your job but also too lazy to work.
@Jason Culligan: You’re an Irish immigrant in Holland, right?
@Diarmuid: Demn Romanians, Polish and Latvians taking our ‘middle-class jobs’, posh D4 houses and all beautify girls !! ;)
@Lord Lucan: a little less name calling and a little more discussion please.
@Lord Lucan: It can only be racist if it wasn’t true but the sad thing is, it is true as Merkel did the same to drive down wages?
@Fred O’Connor: They would only for EU Austerity and Q.E. as that increases inflation?
Convenient that he misses the exact time he was due to outline his departure time to the rest of the gangster party. Surely it’s time for a heave.
What a pity he doesn’t stay there permanently and become their problem
@Marie Gunbay: he may have qualified for the travel pass but he’s going nowhere it seems
@Marie Gunbay: “pity he doesn’t stay there permanently” – actually that was my first thougt – after Australia ban on migrants it’s about a time for spanners like Kenny to look for nice ‘middle-class jobs’ in Canada!
@Marie Gunbay: He might pick up a friend?http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-4447772/The-scariest-superbug-CDC-s-radar-deadly-fungus.html
Misread the headline as “Enda Kenny is travelling to Canada to meet Justin Beiber”
@_doesnotcompute: as good as
@Matty kinevan: Or to see how to fall down the stairs right?
Middle class jobs? Fine gale are home at this
@Stouts O Shea:https://www.rt.com/uk/386242-nose-picking-health-bacteria/
I wonder will Trudeau explain to Enda the political benefits of legalising cannabis in your country…Or at the very least the medicinal benefits!
@Grand: No, this is about CETA and how many farmers here will go out of business and how much GMO crops will enter here now?
Please stay there Bell Enda buy a property in the outback and bore the wildlife to death.
Sure, we can start importing the lumber that the US is about to cease importing as part of a looming trade war that the incompetent Canadian government started.http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/2017/04/25/canadian-dollar-lumber-tariffs_n_16228758.html
@Jason Culligan: Maybe Canadian wood pellets will be cheaper than NI Balcas….
@Chris Kirk: There will be no problems for the American consumers because of this 20% tariff-as Americans do not build any more wooden houses ;)
@Francis Mc Carthy:I would say the nearly 300,000 Canadians who are employed in the lumber sector have something to say about it. The last economic conflict between the US and Canada regarding lumber cost the Canadians nearly 10,000 jobs.It will also directly hurt Canadian consumers as Canada lacks a large enough native industry that turns the raw lumber into finished goods to meet local demand. Much of the lumber imported into the US is exported back in the form of finished goods.
@Francis Mc Carthy: Are you saying that Americans don’t build timber frame houses, I am sure you are wrong about that.
@Jason Culligan: But you see there is just one pesky problem for Trump,and it’s that Canada has won every single World Trade Organization case in relation to softwood lumber that the USA has ever brought…Annnnnnnnd Canada is the US’s largest trading partner and export market. Lots of trading going back & forth there Jason ..You wouldn’t like to see the Americans losing jobs,would you? Yikes!I gave a wink Chris ;)
@Jason Culligan: I have lived here since 1988.  I have also travelled the states extensively in that time.  Believe me when I say this, we will be just fine.  Just like we always are.  Just as every list ever is released ranking countries by every imaginable metric, Canada is always near the top.  This won’t change.
Kenny on another junket while 3 armed gardai patrol Dublin Airport and try and keep Islamic terror from our door.Thanks for the cutbacks Enda the destroyer of our country.
@Just Me: Wonder how many armed gardai are guarding that muppet, I’d say spread around it’s more than 3.
@Just Me: Kenny is hanging around like a very bad smell. What a waste of taxpayers money
To the prime minister of Canada, please keep this sack of sh#te over there
@Paul Burch: The Anti-Leprechaun with his lucky pot of sh173…
Could they be persuaded to keep him?
Ah the country where men and women do not exist. So much for science.
Oh look a reunion of dumb and dumber. Kenny’s bad but Trudeau is a special kind of stupid.
@Anna Bee: Trudeau is an inclusive, progressive, open minded young leader. He is also a highly intelligent and educated person but yet you describe him as “dumb”. Says it all really…..
@Soccer T’s:“The budget will balance itself”Yeah, the pinnacle of intelligence right there.
@Soccer T’s: He’s an idiot, Bill M-103 and bill C-16 prove that, not to mention his position on refugees fleeing over the border from “war torn” USA. Give me a break the man’s a pleb.
Trudeau is awesome.One of the world’s only grown-up leaders.
@Diarmuid: He is a crook
@Diarmuid: How would you know? from your defense of Enda Kenny over the years, you definitely have a credibility issue.As for Soccer T’s? Bahahahaha!
@Anna Bee: Can you imagine Trump or Kennys answer to this question??http://youtu.be/P3ntZDkV5o8
@Soccer T’s: Mmmm word salad… yummy
@Jason Culligan: Give me a break with “the budget will balance itself” crap, you are taking that statement out of context.  The actual quote was “the commitment needs to be a commitment to grow the economy and the budget will balance itself”.  If you don’t understand what he meant by that, then you are in no position to judge what the pinnacle of intelligence would be.  I’ll take Trudeau over Harper any day bud.  You actually buy into political attack ads… maith an fear.
@Diarmuid: the troll speaks…..
Enda is nearly as good as Michael D. Travelling to all the right wing countries at our cost before he retires. Has he a job lined up in Europe as a clap on back for his austerity work and having turned Ireland around. He’ll be gone before the proverbial hits the fan.
Let’s hope he stays there the traitorIt’s all about the disgraceful CETACheap no contract labourGet this clown out
the Americans seem to be doing Canada a favour which will see them diversify their lumber industry into added value products including paper pulp and biomas.
Good job by the Taoiseach. Relationship building and selling Ireland abroad is so important particularly with Brexit on the horizon.
Is Enda emigrating? I hope so.
Bit of luck he’ll stay there…… useless, spineless excuse for a leader of a country!
Enda’s off to enrol onto Trudeau’s school of boxing, socialism and how to grow the almightly weed. !!
10 out of 10 for amusement value Carol he sounds like a great Magician !!!!!
It will probably be the first time in history that a Canadian will be compelled to tell someone to ” Fu€k off.” Canadian’s may be polite but there not gullible.
What a plonker Brendan you are ..Liebour lied and lied and screwed the people for their few bits of silver . Your party will never recover .. Go away please..
@Willy Malone: Wouldn’t be too sure about that. Same was said about FF after the 2011 general election. It was said then that the next FF Taoiseach hadn’t being born yet. As it stands there a reasonable possibility that the next FF Taoiseach was not only alive and well in 2011 but was a member of the cabinet that treacherously sold our grandchildren futures away to the bondholders. The Irish voters have a very short memory.
@Willy Malone: another washed up excuse for a politician who thinks he’s relevant. They lied their way into office and got thumped for it…stay away Howlin and in time we will hopefully forget you and your party.
@Willy Malone: he will say and do anything to get back into power.
@mickmc: Spot on. I didn’t vote Labour last year and won’t vote for them next time but let’s remember they were the smaller party in govt. I am proud to say that I have never FF (I first voted in 1990 Presidential Election – Brian Lenihan mature recollection) and I never will.
@John Ryan: *voted FF
@John Ryan: John, I can understand why you’re not voting FF now, but to say you will never vote for one party or another is a major part of the problem in Irish politics.  The two major parties rely on their historical support way too much and only have to swing undecided voters to get into power.  Judge the parties on what they are now, not what they have been – or worse, vote for them because your family does.  ( of course it does not help when the major parties insist on keeping the same politicians as leaders who presided over monumental disasters and think we will forget all about their incompetence)
You’re right Brendan, there is a dark wind blowing across the world, it’s called religious extremism and pc nonsense and it must be stopped.
@canuckandgo: I’m with you on that one ,it’s a terrifying scenario.
@ RJ … Terrorist attacks are at their lowest since the 1970s, check out the facts before giving into the hype.http://www.datagraver.com/case/people-killed-by-terrorism-per-year-in-western-europe-1970-2015
@Ibhar Mac Suibhne: There’s a lot more going on other than terrorist attacks, but that’s not for this thread.
Who said anything about terrorism?
@Ibhar Mac Suibhne: What those stats don’t show is the potentially millions of individuals in Europe who have isolated themselves, live in abstract poverty, cannot speak host country languages and harbour a hatred of their host.
Good man Brendan. Do you remember voting for the eviction bill?
Such lovely words. Such empty words.
@Lily Martin: Labour’s way or Frankfurt’s way.
Watched his speech. The best part of it was watching Alan Kelly reaction to it. Not the best of friends I suspect. The Journals poster boy could barely lift his hands to the clapping position.
@lavbeer: Thats because he himself in not in any position of power. He is now a nobody.
I’m really beginning to think that some politicians are psychopath. Has this guy no memory of how  his party ,  treated the Irish people last time they were in power .
@moe: That must surely rate as the most hypocritical political speech ever. Has Howlin forgot the broken promises, the total disregard him and his party had for the people of this country. Go away Howlin you and the rest of your traitorous party, and never come back.
@Just Me:https://youtu.be/jdp2pGo4SeEI rest my case.
@moe: Not psychopath moe, just having a neck like a jockeys bollox because they know they won’t be held to account. Unbelievable how we have put up with this kind of individual for so long.
This guy has no credibility what so ever.
This really made me laugh, this article.Labour are full of bluster when in opposition but act like toothless pussies when in govt (see previous govt for example).
People in glasshouses comes to mind
@Gerry Corbett: As shmall and shlimy a shleeveen as Meehole and the FFers any day of the week.
And don’t forget that Joan Burton has had a 17 year old Young man convicted of false imprisonment.A shameful act.
I’ll give him credit for hitting the nail on the head, he speaks the truth but I would never ever vote for a Labour Party that hides amongst its ranks such twisted politicians as the like of Joan Burton or Alan Kelly.They are simply not fit to hold any sort of public office.Don’t forget Scam bridge and the setting up Irish water and the lies Kelly told about the need for metering and the reasons why he forced them on us.’
Please just Go away and hopefully Labour will  politically be dead and gone next election. Labour sold every worker out in this country. Howlin himself destroyed the public sector and as for Labours stance on water charges. Just a horrible bunch of cowards, untrustworthy,self serving low lifes .
@Ivan Enoughofit: tbh ff deserved to die and go away forever. By no means am I happy with labours performance in govt btw they softened the cuts fg wanted to impose. They probably should’ve taken a stronger stand. Ff and fg deserve vitriol. Labour not as much. I think it’s insane ff are forgiven tbh
@Keith Gregg: get a grip
@Ivan Enoughofit: eh, so you are pro FF/FG yet you chastise labour? I’m not the one in need of a “grip”
@Keith Gregg:Agree with you on FF mate. How could any sane person vote for them again???? Seriously.
Is this a plan to try and lose the remaining 7 seats. Sounds like he has lost the plot, maybe time to join the AAA or whatever they call themselves now
@Nick Allen: He clung on long enough to secure all his pensions.  He doesn’t give a shiny shite about the people he and his party betrayed to do it.
Disgusting how RTÉ and radio stations are giving the Labour Party a platform to spew their crap,this party have done nothing but lie and brought hardship to people,not to mention cutting ribbons to opening food banks,disgusting party that I will never vote for again
Howlin on the road to Damascus- he’ll need a driver and a merc to find it.We never had a Labour Party worthy of the name in this country.Dick spring ruari I phone Joan are socialists?Not so much smoked salmon as foie gras socialists.
@vNblxOSQ: Still has a driver, along with a cadre of loyal lickspittle lackeys who will defend him  and the Liebore party to the last.
No wonder when he is living in the wake of other great labour wannabes who think that it is ‘labours way or Frankfurts way’.
Stand up and be counted howlin…oh..right… .
We have very low calibre politicians – but continue to elect them, based on civil war memories and with little consideration of those who precipitated our virtual bankruptcy. And our €200+ billion National Debt.
This mediocrity castigates Trump, Le Pen and Brexit – nothing whatsoever to do with him…
@Paul Foot: When politicians like Howlin throw a tissy-fit like this, then Trump et al must be doing something right. Also, the article states that Trump is a homophobe… yea right:https://qz.com/823649/donald-trump-unfurled-a-rainbow-flag-with-lgbt-written-on-it-at-a-rally-in-greeley-colorado-to-express-his-so-called-support/More fake news from Howlin and his merry bandits on the left.
seems howlin has forgotten the austerity measures he was involved in the last govt….the lies spinned to electorate etc etc….labours way not frankfurts way.advisers,bondholders and bankers well looked after…private sector pensions robbed…we have not forgotten the lies brendan
Howlins speech reminded me of Emerson’s.            The louder he spoke of his honourThe faster we counted our spoons
Hilarious. You expect people to believe Labour can deliver jobs? The left represents higher taxes and the inflexible trade union movement both of which stifle job creation.
Neocon Howlin. At the forefront of the water privatisation set.
What a buffoon! I voted Labour all my life but I will never, ever, vote for them again! They sold us out for seats around the cabinet table, pensions, state cars and demonstrated an unerring ability at cronieism, nepotism and arrogance! Guillotined legislation through the Rail, cheered the worst excesses of FG, championed the Vulture funds! Eirgrid, food banks, wholesale assault on living standards and Irish Water! Always remember and never forget those who tried to steal our children’s water! Roll on #GE2017 so we may consign Labour to the dustbin of history. The Party of Larkin and Connolly hijacked by carpetbaggers and champagne socialists. Please just go and join the Greens in well deserved obscurity!
Labour should change their name to the “civil service and semi state party” that’s their core vote base at least be honest about it, they’ve zero interest in any other constituency fact!!!
@Aidan Reilly: Nope.  Howlin destroyed civil service wages and conditions.  He’s hated among PS.
Howlin will say and do whatever to get back in to power.
Voted Labour for years. Never again. Detest their lies and hypocrisy and their right wing policies when in government.. Suddenly all cuddly left wing antics when back in opposition.. Repulsive…. yet adored by RTE.. Wont cut our license fee the darlings…
Do you want to know why you shouldn’t vote labour ever again? For all his bravado and champagne socialist speeches. When destitute and tinkering on the edge of annihilation as a party after a disastrous cowardly spell in government, Labour and their dear leader voted for the TD pay rises:https://www.google.ie/amp/www.thejournal.ie/tds-pay-3075893-Nov2016/%3Famp%3D1Just sickening when you think about all the pain and hardship the ordinary citizen had to endure.
Never vote for labour,they are a pretend labour party.never forget they took medical cards off cancer patients and children with down’s syndrome to protect banks, bondholders,the wealthy in society.
@@mdmak33: one of the 1st things former Td and ex junior minister of health Alex White did was remove the medical cards from some of the most needy citizens . A cynical move from a vile party .  In case  he’s still wondering  why he lost his seat … only 6 more to get this message at the next election .
Just a gentle the reminder brendan. We the people vote not your room full of soldiers. What a  load of craic he spews
Those in glass houses shouldn’t throwStones. Your time in relevance has long since past.
Hi Eamonn, Just looking for directions, can you tell me where ‘Frankfurt’s way’ is? Thanks..
Poison dwarf
@Sam Bartell: Indeed you’re right. This odious Howlin guy is quite small, he could be related to President Michael Higgins for all I care. One could put a pint of Guinness on Howlin’s head as a table base & talk over his head across to someone else.
The gall of this man, how can he keep a straight face. Does he think we have forgotton the right wing party he belongs to and it’s actions while in government?
Brendan who????
a couple of reasons not to vote labour, Bachik, Jack (TROPHY HOUSE) O’Connor who helped screw the worker since 2008  while he was still on a good wage for doing nothing for his members, Aodian O’Riordian enough said!  and Alan Kelly who is only interested Tipperary, oh buy the way i must be racist because i don’t like the way our country if going, and how europe is been invaded.!
When a moderate political party abandon their core voters they look elsewhere hence the rise of the nut job Trump and Le Penn.Stop making some workers more equal than others but then that means standing up to vested interests, so stop taking money from said vested interests!
At the end of the article he expresses concern for people in their. Are these the same people forced to do unpaid work
@Dave O’Hanlon: their 20′s
Back under your rock howler monkey
Impossible to believe anything he says. Nice speech but Labour were found wanting for action when they had the opportunity.
The citizens of Ireland will not forget being sold out by labour. Trying to make themselves relevant again. Worse than useless
Labour CHAMPAGNE SOCIALISTS betrayed the MOST NEEDY CITIZENS with THEIR 5 REGRESSIVE BUDGETS. They took up to 10 times off the least well off groups & only charged the most well off groups only 2 euro a week with the household charge in budget 2012. They continued taking from the least well off for the next 4 years whilst taking nothing off anyone who was working and better off. Budget 15 & 16, when austerity cutbacks was meant to be over, Labour only gave the absolute MINIMUM crumbs to our over 66s whilst they gave nothing to any needy person under 66 like the disabled, carers, lone parents & 99.5% genuinely unemployed. Labour will have not forgotten your 2011 Tesco ad & all those cuts you inflicted on ONLY THE VULERNABLE GROUPS whilst the cowards of Quinn, Pat Rabbitte & Eamon Gilmore went off in 2016 with their HUGE MULTIPLE PENSIONS well under pension age & these call themselves “socialists”?. Remember Gilmore’s & Pat Rabbitte’s Democratic Left Party & all their anti water,bin etc campaigns in the 1990s? What happened to these smoked salmon & champagne socialists?, cos self serving GREEDY NO PRINCIPLES individuals is all their government legacy & pensions point to. Maybe HOWLIN IF you Looked after the needy especially with housing etc maybe you and Joan & Alan “smug face to say least when reelected” Kelly would be a bit more popular
Brendan you should know all about sham Governments you were part of one for long enough you Muppet. Sickening to listen to him as if he actually believed in what he was talking about .
Poor Brendan & the labour party would like us to forget what they did when in government with FG .Well we won’t forget the way Labour sold us out you lied dumped you’re core values in the bin and cuddled up to FG rubber stamping everything FG wanted
DEFLECTION, DEFLECTION,DEFLECTION. Hiding the mess you made of it last time and the internal rifts with cheap headlines from an obliging obedient media. You destroyed your core values and failed the people you were meant to represent.  The caption for this article should be IRRELEVANT, IRRELEVANT, IRRELEVANT.
A self serving idiot who was in government long enough and had no problem lecturing everyone.Bye bye champagne Socialist of the 40 pension and water charges Brendan nobody cares about you or your deceased party . President Trump is welcome in Ireland.
Labour Party me hole!!!
@Philip McLoughlin: How did they get Joan to speak at the confidence, it felt like the Nazi party dug up Hitler when I saw that…
And what did Howlin do in his last government job???
“Howlin is trying to rebuild the party after” Joan nuked it?
Love the political revisionism here. The country was in a terrible state in 2008 because of FF pandering to the Public Sector and construction industry. I actually think FG and Labour did a reasonable if not good jobs with the little resources available. We could have ended up like Greece if FF or those left wing nuts got in. Note: Socialism is dead and capatilism is going that way too.
Talking shit as usual.
Hahahaha…oh Brendan…you’re a gas man!!  Lol.
How’s Trump a homophobe ?
Your a sham
Shut up Brendan!! You are a big sham yourself!!
Hope.   Less
as bad as FG may appear to be there the best of a bad lot their hands are mostly tired because of corrupt developers wanting free handouts and EU bureaucrats crippling any chance of planning the economy to best serve the people of the country but instead serve business who want increasingly cheaper and cheaper labor without having to take on any responsibilities themselves.
@ÉireBarbarian: also labor sucks and Brendan Howlin and his ilk can feic off to Venezuela for a holiday
Enda Kenny with a sweeping brush? first bit of work the man has done in his whole life.
Cut him some slack. At least he got to enjoy this one in Ireland. If the Americans get their fingers on this too, the poor taoiseach will have to be in DC again, possibly wearing a silly green hat.
@Les Behan: Looked like the area around the Custom House had been cordoned off to keep the riff-raff out as it was strictly for all Blueshirts/Blueblouses & their families and their faithful FG voters only. I’m sure there were plenty of these unlucky ones not getting a pass to the FG LoveFest disguised as “Cruinniú na Cásca”, giving out to poor aul Joe Duffy across the Liffey, probably wishing that he’d stayed at home all day instead…IndaKinny does look a proper eejit doing the broom dance…Go back to yer home town as it’s still has got the vacancy of Town Idiot awaiting for ye, Mr Kinny.
This lousy gob$hite doesn’t deserve any slack.
@John Flanagan: Of course. Anywhere that Pric* Kenny is is bound to be shite.
@John Flanagan: Yep. Thats what its designed for. Him and he’s well heeled ass Lickers.
@Les Behan: Where is he sticking it. That is my question?
“with RTÉ reporting that some 550,000 people were in attendance”LOL!!
@The Risen: they couldn’t count at the water marches either.
I went to it today. Twas a load of bollix
Best fun ever today. Went in with some friends from Ireland, Brazil and France. The atmosphere was electric.  Really enjoyed the dancing and the musicians were excellent! Plus the weather was great! Thank you one and all. Great addition to the National Calendar of Events!!!
@George Hogan: electric? Sad. If you think thats electric.
@Christopher Gardiner: My bet is that George Hogan probably works for either RTE or FG.
Were you there, Christopher? Or, are you just commenting on stuff you know Jack about…like most negative commenting on here.
@Sara Elia López: full of a**$*les, I dunno what’s in the water up there but these past few years has bred and attracted a frightening level of arrogance and unfriendliness. I lived there for 15 years left it 2 years ago. Once it stays there and doesn’t spread to rural Ireland it’s fine by me.
@George Hogan: I was there also, completely agree it was a brilliant day out, kids loved it.
@John FlanaganDon’t work for either…Just a happy, positive person who enjoys the craic and good vibes.  Today was sick.  Kinda telling that creeps on this site start inventing back-stories for people who post a positive comment. Do yourself a favor, get a life. Only the deadbeat, low-life trolls on this site seem to knock everything.  The rest of us get on with enjoying life! Be happy!
@George Hogan: Completely agree. I was there and it was a brilliant day out. Kids absolutely loved it, there was loads to do.
@George Hogan: Dear Mr Hogan, thank you for your sage advice on how to live my life. With kind regards, from John.P.S. Of course I’m just being sarcy here!
Naw! You’re a sad joke! Get a life and desist from trolling me! ‘Sarcy’? Don’t even wanna know what you could possibly be alluding to! Freaky!
@George Hogan: Hahahaha you FG freak…probably yer aul fella’s a FG TD or is he related to you? The name Phil ring any bell for ye?
@Sara Elia López: Trust RTE then?
Smart-Casual eh Enda!! Some set of brogues
@⚡ Seánie ⚡couldn’t have said it better Seanie!!
Note the level of promotion and coverage that the government and their regime broadcaster are giving to this in comparison with the 100th centenary of the easter rising last year.“I must say all that rebellion stuff made us very uncomfortable, this year we need to create a new narrative for Easter. Something a bit more bland and multicultural, a bit more Donnybrook don’t you know”
@Inky Winky: I don’t know what you’re talking about, RTE went full OTT for the rising celebrations, there was wall to wall coverage on radio TV and even some books, all well flagged with extensive publicity and advertising. The 1916 commemorations were covered live and they even commissioned a TV series. There’s none so blind etc…
@Jimmyjoe Wallace: Yeah they did have a lot on the Rising. But they focused on the negatives quiet a bit imo. For every positive on the Men of 1916, there was another giving the British side. Anyway I wish this project well especially the Irish language and dance parts. slán agus beannacht.
Why am I always upset when I see this Taoiseach havin’ a good time? When I think of the laughter that the people of Ireland were deprived of, through his decisions and lap-dogging, I begrudge him everything.
Style icon Kenny. Runners and jeans ok to be casual but not with a jacket. Jesus wept.
Lookin at that spastic Kenny gives me the gawks.
@Christopher Gardiner: Chris, he is a dolt, a gombeen, an eejit, but NOT a “spastic” – an historic term for sufferers with cerebral palsy. I love a good insult and Kenny deserves so many, but please not that particular one?
What’s up with IndaKinny playing with children out in public? That was proper more cringe than seeing him kiss some baby…Jesus wept.
He’s out enjoying the festival . Why don’t you just stfu. Go outside & do something instead of leaving comments like it actually matters . Failing that go concentrate on your half empty glass. Fg were democratically elected . Plus it looks like kennys stepping down soon but in sure you’ve got lots of bile to throw at whoever replaces him . Grow up
@Ronan McDermott: The f#*king cheek of you. You sticking up for that toe-rag? He has no right enjoying himself while people suffer. Its the likes of you that has the country f*#ked, so stfu yourself. Moron.
Kenny & Duffy – I can’t imagine two bigger pr:&S to be inflicted on the Irish people since Cromwell and Gaybo
@Thomas Harrington:Duffy is such a tool. I remember him in college when he was a radical socialist. Funny how 600 grand a year from RTE can cure any kind of radical.
Heathers Humphries must nearly have choked with all the Irish dancing music and broom dancing.
@john g mcgrath: Not to mention Chinese,  African and Asian dancing under the name of Irish Art.  Get a grip people we are selling down the river with every day.
“Could the owner of the old ginger git please report the the tent”. I would love to see both Kenny and humphries dancing in front of an investigation into the mcnulty scandal. Dancing around questions about the abuse of power and the sickening cronyism politicial party’s assume is there privilage. At Oliver Cromwell said ” Go now you can do no good hanging around playing a fool”. It’s good to see our culture on display, well worth all those lives of patriots who put on the green jersey during civil wars. It’s just depressing how slow we have advanced and how the citizen is last to see any fruits this country produces.
I was celebrating Irish culture at Fairyhouse today and he was also there! Must have been a busy day for Dame Enda!
Style icon Kenny strikes again. Jeans and runners ok to be casual but not with a jacket. Jesus wept
@Pat Mustard: with the nike airs and the jacket he looks like the oldest ASBO in town
Yid think with all my money Edna would buy herself a decent pair of runners.
@Gary Keegan: they’re Nike, pretty bad alright
Is it just me or are women’s Irish dancing costumes getting shorter by the minute.At this rate they’ll soon be dancing in the nude.
Oh look 4 pictures of the village idiot. With apologises to all idiots casting you in the same mold as Enda…..
Love Enda’s style, small farmer chic open neck shirt complete with red neck,plus cheapest of Nike trainers for the casual gombeen. Somebody should have hit him with the brush.
Amazing how few Irish flags I see around he country. In America the Stars and Stripes are proudly flown on every corner of every street. In Ireland there is a negative connotation and assumption that one must have extreme republican views to fly the tricolour.
@Ciarán McPhillips: It’s quite tacky when you see a Made in China USA flag on every lawn.
@Ciarán McPhillips: agree. If you walk through Paris, London, any major US city, the national flag is flown on all of the major buildings and department stores. We should be doing likewise. As long as they are well maintained then it looks really well and is a nice showing of national pride. Unfortunately at present we seem to only fly moth eaten replicas outside pubs during the six nations.
@Seán J. Troy: i think it’s tacky to display one outside your house the way the Americans do ..
@Ciarán McPhillips:  the Irish flag has been hijacked by dissidents and its time we claimed it back.
@Ciarán McPhillips: Remember that last year every school was given a flag as part of the 1916 commemorations, but how many still fly it. You would expect government buildings to fly the flag but someone should show them how to respect it andnot fly it when it is torn and dirty.
@Suzie Sunshine: That’s what I’m saying Susie. And tjeure inevitably $3 Wal-Mart flags made in China. It’s embarrassing.
Can we not just illuminate Edna & fly him 24/7 because he’s good for nothing else
The correct way to fly the flag is from first to last light. I definitely notice alot more flags flying since the 1916 commemoration. Great to see.
@Darren Mccarthy: it would be nice if those flags were lowered at sunset.
Protocol dictates that you can fly a flag overnight if it is illuminated.
Enda the limpdick might have a new found respect for the flag since the 1916 anniversary but alot of us had that respect for it all our lives. God bless the folk who died in 16 so we could fly it.
Limpnick.
Excellent
Make the Spire a massive flag pole :)
@Chris: Always thought they should have done that, just like at cancun mexico!
@Chris: Could you imagine the size of the flag, you would see it from space.
@Chris:  or better get rid of the useless metal junk that costs milions to clean every few years
FG and enda kenny, looking after the important things in life, like the tricolor!
@Adrian: Well he is the country’s leader.Tasks like this come up from time to time im sure.
@Adrian: respect for our flag
I’d like to see the flag flown but public buildings disrespect it,  the amount of torn  and dirty tri colours I have seen is disgraceful,  I’d rather see none.
@Dean Burroughs: What specific public buildings fly old and torn tricolours? I am intrigued.
@Diarmuid: the childrens court in smithfield is one
@Ciarán McPhillips: I sometimes think its just perceived as a bit nationalist which is often associated with skangerism.I think deep down its that the US flag is perceived differently in their own eyes. Its territories are united, divid under policy for sure but they dont question their identity in that way and theyve built a culture around its meaning.Here, the tricolor is a symbol of nationalism in a divided land. It contradicts the meaning of its own colours.
Could you imagine suggesting that in Belfast, even for one day?
@Abcd: It would actually be quite apt to suggest given its meaning
@Donal Proctor: Are you forgetting what happened when the union flag was taken off Belfast City Hall???
@Abcd: I’m just given its meaning would be apt in the sense it means unity essentially.Of course the orange nuts would go Bananas.
@Donal Proctor: The first St.Patricks day parade only took place in Belfast in 1998. Unionists are still shocked
@Donal Proctor: The unionists must all be colour blind. They can’t see their colour on the flag with the equal third shared with peace (white) & nationalist green. Meanwhile the union flag doesn’t even have any Welsh symbols, nevermind island of Ireland symbols or India or any other Commonwealth country that they are supposed to care about after centenaries of oppression
@Abcd: They are shocked because St.Patrick is the patron saint and not a political figure. He was buried in Downpatrick, time people of this island stopped confusing politics with religion.
@Abcd: Very true, then Wales was never a Kingdom…..
@Chris Kirk: They are forgetting that he brought Christianity to this Island. They also call themselves very passionate Christians. At the time of The Norman Invasion we where all the SAME Christians till the church in Ireland split  in the 1600s & the Ulster plantation was foisted on us when the last of of our most Gealic areas lost their leaders with the flight of the Earls
@Abcd: one of the diagonal crosses on the union flag specifically is irish but cant recall the one.
@Damo Doyle: The  union Jack flag combines aspects of three older national flags: the redcross of St George of the Kingdom of England, the white saltire of St Andrew for Scotland (which two were united in the first Union Flag), and the red saltire of St Patrick to represent Ireland.
There just not arsed taking it down each night. Let’s call it what it is
We may as well just fly an all white flag as we surrender to any foreign force that turns up.
Or support Kildare.
when the provos starting abusing our flag by draping it over evil terrorists a lot of people lost interest in it
Enda, hiding behind the flag, politics, the last refuge of a scoundrel
Thousands of people homeless, thousands more under the kosh of criminal banks but these are our priorities? The Republic is dead, long live the Republic.
I wal always thought that flag etiquette was the lowering of the flag at sundown without it touching the ground and raised again at dawn. Its not suppoded to be out over night and flies higher than other flags and in the centre of a row of flags. However given the fact that the national flag and eu flag are flown side by side at equal height at many governmental deartments shows the scant regard the state has for the national flag
I was working at the LZ in the Phoenix Park out side the ambassadors residence when Marine 1 and 2 landed to return Obama after his trip to moneygall. The airborne Amanda included 3 Vietnam era Chinooks that transported the entourage including the Ambassador. One of the windiest days Ireland had recorded in a long time. The Ambassador said he thought the chopper had been shot down when he deplaned. He had everyone around laughing. Nice guy.RIP.
@Brian Farrell: nice story. Only met him once. A gentleman
Great guy, a good friend to Ireland.
Sad. He was a good man.
A lovely man RIP! He was the son of the famous Art Rooney owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers and also known as the chief.
A great man. I think that Rooney rule can be used in every industry to bring greater equality in all areas of life.
I had the honor of looking after Ambassador Rooney at the American Embassies 4th of July Celebration in July of 2012. It was while I worked at the ‘Four Seasons’ in Dublin. I was his personal server and chaperone at the event. He was a complete gentleman and it’s a moment I’ll always treasure as a ‘Steelers fan. This man and his father and grandfather before him done so much for the people of Pittsburgh that their legacy will live forever. May he rest in eternal peace.
I lived in Pittsburgh for a while and he was universally liked and respected there. The Rooney’s helped restore a city that was devastated when the US steel industry collapsed in the 1950′s.
Great man with a great heart. RIP.
Rip nice guy. Very friendly
Sounds like a lovely man.R.I.P.
An absolute gent, kind, courteous and respectful of everyone no matter their job. Was lucky enough to work for the Rooney’s in Dublin. Visited every county in Ireland as ambassador, one of his main goals when he arrived in the country and his 4th of July parties will live in legend, turned the entire rear lawn of the residence into a football stadium for a flag football game, complete with skydivers delivering the game ball. Obama’s visit was almost single handedly his doing, payback for switching sides and backing him for the presidency. He was a good friend of Ireland and considered himself an Irish man. He acted as much as an ambassador for Ireland to America as America to Ireland. It’s a sad day. My thoughts are with his family. Very humble and friendly people.
R.I.P Dan.
Buy all accounts Mr Rooney was a great man. Successful in his roles as ambassador to Ireland and as owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers. I never got to meet him personally but I’ve heard nothing but good things from those who have. RIP
Im Dan Rooney and ill fight any man!
Was he the one who said we were Morons……
What are they still doing in the country then. Kick em out no questions asked or are they waiting for something to happen
@Joe Mc: May well be Irish citizens. Perhaps not even from the background you’re thinking about. But I would agree deporting someone on these grounds should be simpler.
@Lisa Saputo: Exactly what I was thinking Lisa. We’ve more homegrown terrorists can you could shake a stick at with the Ultranationalist dissident Republicans. As well as the rise of Far-Right fascists.
Far Right Facists ? where are they ? , what we have is a large  number of looney left Islamic apologists
@Grainne Abdulaziz: “Far right fascists” Haha who do you think you are fooling lady?
@Mark Mcloughlin: The minute the bombs went off by the Dortmund bus they we’re everywhere “we don’t know who did it”, “maybe it was a firecracker”, “here come the racists” – ridiculous.My uncle was unceremoniously chucked out of a bar in the UK in the 70s just for having a Liverpool accent and a tricolour on his jacket.  We were the problem then, we know who the problem are now.Why are liberal idiots so scared to admit the truth ????Oh and deportation absolutely – I don’t care you have an Irish passport.  You want to live in a Muslin hellhole, move to one.
@CeannairBlue: because it is stupid to guess who is responsible for anything based on bias and no evidence whatsoever.
@Grainne Abdulaziz: The most dangerous group of people we have are the useful idiots and apologists for islamic terror. The amount of people who support these groups and their idea of sharia for all is mind boggling. How can women and those who purport to support women’s rights and equality support these groups unless there is something lacking in their lives.
@Joe Mc:There would be no Senior Management in AGS and very few politicians left in the country if we rid ourselves of those who are a danger to Ireland
Is Enda one of individuals “who do not have this country’s interests at heart”.
@Just Me: the most dangerous people are the paranoid racists.not a big fan of muslims myself but hate creates hate. It should be plain to see by now.every country that has been attacked had strong racist elements.
@Rave Bennett: Jesus wept.
“Garda monitoring a small number of individuals who don’t have the country’s interests at heart.” Another name for this grouping would be “the Cabinet”.
@Adrian: my thoughts exactly
@Maurice Frazer: When you hear Enda Kenny saying that i picture some lad walking into a mosque with a hat a camera similar to what the IRS made Homer wear in the Simpsons..
@Cosmo Kramer: The choice of words is interesting. If it were the feud between  two criminal gangs, the headline and political speak would be, Gardai monitoring group of individuals, but seen that’s it’s about the adherents to the religion of peace, the words used are a small group of individuals. I’d hazard a guess that their numbers are not small, in fact they outweigh the amount of people involved in the criminal feud. Those elected to run this country need to wake up to reality and see that’s it’s only a matter of time before islamic terror visits us.
@Adrian: NAMA have done more damage to the country that the most extreme terrorists could only dream of.
People who don’t have this countries best interest at heart should simply be thrown out of the country. Why wait ?????
@Paul Mc Manus: Into which country would you throw them?
@Neal, not Neil.: Atlantis
@Chris Linehan: Was gonna say the Atlantic – send em up to Malin Head and a swift kick in the backside.  Job done.
@Neal, not Neil.:  Well we could relocate them to Rockall. Where the natural gas will burn their ass and send them all to hell.
@Just Me: Would they still get their virgins ???I was quite hoping they would – and they were made up of my Auntie, and several nuns from school.  That’d show em!
@CeannairBlue: They would more than likely meet up with a lot of their mates, I’m sure Aul Nick might arrange something, hot poker maybe.
@Neal, not Neil.:AGS Headquarters in the Park
Over here we stick them on the late late show and our politicians visit them in jails in foreign countries. They were only on holidays don’t ya know. PMSL!
@OpenBorders: Only time I have ever liked one of your comments haha!
@Mark Mcloughlin: Open Borders must have banged his head this morning, he’s a creepy Islamofascist Troll, real name, Liam Egan from Wexford.
@Mark Mcloughlin: Agree,but it’s so unbelievable I think someone must have hacked into his account.
I would say England has more of a idea of what’s going on over here with regards clandestine carry on than we do ,in there own interest
I have zero confidence that our government could handle a major disaster or attack nor be able to prevent it from happening. It may as well be an asteroid strike as far as the possibility of it is to them.
@Awkward Seal: I have zero confidence in our Government.
Sharia loving nut jobs have no place in this country.
@Lepanto: We and the rest of Europe will rue the day they allowed the Allah brigades into our countries. Their objective is to enslave Europeans and create their archaic, dark age Shariah law’s. They will not assimilate into Western culture,and have no intention of doing so.  End all migration to Europe of all religious fanatic’s before they destroy our Freedom’s Culture, and way of life that has taken centuries to develop.
Can you imagine our hospitals trying to cope with the aftermath of a major terrorist attack, or any other major incident.The state the health service is in is already an attack on our democracy.
@Richard Brady:The government could at least consider installing electronic retractable bollards either end of the likes of Henry and Grafton St, and similar pedestrianised shopping Streets across the country…https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQyFhkReOmk
@Lepanto: fine point!
Just thinking. They should be monitoring our own TDs, they certainly don’t have our countries best interests at heart. Lol
small! but growing all the time through immigration forced on us by the eu, even though it has failed miserably for decades across britain and the continent !
@Terry Mac:I introduce to you sinn fein and the lefts stance on immigration“Sinn Fein views with concern the increasing emergence of openly racist sentiment in Ireland. We support the calls for an immediate amnesty for all asylum seekers in the 26 counties. Sinn Fein will work for the achievement of the optimum position of NO RESTRICTION on immigration in Ireland.”“Considering this country’s history of emigration Sinn Fein deplores all attempts to limit the numbers of political and economic refugees into the country and supports the full integration of the aforementioned refugees into society”
@James Nellie: That’s legit ??  Jesus.  I vote Sinn Fein but that is way out of line to say that.
@CeannairBlue: I too vote SF, but I have never heard this.James Nellie is troll so it’s in his and FF, FG, interest to say this.
@Just Me: supporting them without knowing what they stand for ? Why?
@paddy: I know full well what the stand for. As a long standing supporter I take the patriotic view, unlike the Quislings (that’s traitors) of your ilk and your political parties. Your namesake supposedly got rid of all the snakes in Ireland, seems he missed a few.
@Just Me: ooohhhh! Such a mean name caller. When your own flaws are pointed out- let the name calling begin. And if patriotic means supporting those who murder women and children then you are welcome to  Dessie ellis, Martin ferris and Gerry who do actually have the blood of actual Irish women and children on their hands. So name call away! If it helps
@Just Me:quislings- that’s rich- like the RA weren’t riddled with actual informing quislings. The truth will set you free a cara!
@CeannairBlue: this might help. I love it when the truth of a thing hits home.Enjoy!http://www.sinnfein.ie/files/2009/Policies_Racism.pdfSo- long standing supporter- what do you think now or will you just call me more names!
@CeannairBlue: I just want to say- this is the funniest unintentional comment that I have ever read on here. Go raibh maith agat a cara. Ní bheidh do leithèid arìs ann.
How did they let Khalid Kelly slip?
@Sara Elia López:I can think of another one from Wexford.
@Sara Elia López: that genius who got what he deserved- shot before he could blow himself up
Nice bit of fear mongering.
@paddy: Sweden thought that too
@Rosa Parks: Sweden is a huge exporter of weapons.
@Stephen: What’s the gist of your point?
Stephen Sweden is a huge importer of Muslims
@Stephen McManus: Did the people that were murdered on the street export any??? Apologists for islamic terror are so fcuking braindead.
So we need to update our security measures and they’re gonna have a cobra style meeting soon. Let us all know how the meeting goes lads!
well theres enough snakes in goverment,so it would be aptly named.
Gardaí are monitoring a small number of individuals ‘who do not have this country’s interests at heart’Denis O’Brien and Enda Kenny?
I take it from the headline that they’ll be spending a lot of time monitoring the government so! Typical Enda rubbish this, surprised didnt start quoting Drake or someone, the man would do anything to stay, or seem, current.
Is it not good that we are aware of people involved in terrorism living in this country? Clueless comments above criticising the government for this. It’s not possible to just send people back either they may well hold Irish passports. In the uk if they hold British passports they will take the passport and essentially ban them from leaving the UK, seems a bit crazy to trap these people in your country however.
@Mark: stop talking anything that resembles sense. It’ll only upset people.
Should be more concerned about 500 suicides a year.
@joe o hare: so just forget about terrorism and security and focus everything on suicide???
Can’t wait to see if our incompetent government open the “Department of Oh Holy God” to deal with national emergencies.. Maybe they will put a 60 year old Geography teacher in charge of it, so at least he or she will know where to pin point a crisis on the map?
I introduce to you sinn fein and the lefts stance on immigration“Sinn Fein views with concern the increasing emergence of openly racist sentiment in Ireland. We support the calls for an immediate amnesty for all asylum seekers in the 26 counties. Sinn Fein will work for the achievement of the optimum position of NO RESTRICTION on immigration in Ireland.”“Considering this country’s history of emigration Sinn Fein deplores all attempts to limit the numbers of political and economic refugees into the country and supports the full integration of the aforementioned refugees into society”
Must be very easy when they all work in the dail.
What about this. If all of you who stand on the sidelines, throwing muck feel so strongly- stand for election on a platform that details your plans for this state. Stop moaning- stand for election- and deliver the change that you feel so strongly about.
@paddy: I can’t put my job on hold in case it doesn’t work out, like our teachers/politicians.
@Mistawez: so keep moaning away! Anger and moaning drive real change!
Amazing (and frightening) that we don’t have a Cobra style structure and procedures in place to deal with a crisis. Fundamental principle is that the crisis management committee is chaired by the ‘boss’. Saying we have an Office is not good enough!!
Good to know that we’re on the ball!! Then please give them a swift kick out of the country!! Don’t pander!! Recently here in Germany two Mosques were closed down because they were preaching hate towards infidels and non-believers!! It was all on camera and every word taped!! When confronted with this evidence, the Iman ‘apologised’!!!! There are many Muslim people here in Germany who are living their lives, raising their children and certainly don’t condone the actions of twisted individuals whose hearts are bent on murder, misery and darkness!! I have friends who are Muslim, Jewish, Catholics and Protestants. We are friends. Religion is never an issue between us.
That would be the bus drivers so.
Just saying. Convicted terrorists sit in Dáil Éireann . At least these people( article never says who they are- possibly Alphabet RA) are being monitored and the scary reality is that there is very little you can do adainst a disturbed motivated individual, in real life though, we are much more at risk from cars than mad bomber gobsheens, Don’t all give out to me at onceP.s. The RA and criminal have and continue to murder many more Irish people than ANY Islamic terrorist- and that is a fact!
@paddy: Oh be quiet.
@CeannairBlue: superb rebuttal of each of my points. Forensic attention to detail
@paddy: You forgot to mention your mates new weapon of choice, lorries.
@paddy: A) You’re not worth it and B) I doubt you’d be able to follow a coherent argument.
@CeannairBlue: so why bother!
@paddy: I’m not an apologist for sharia head cases, when convicted of terrorists offences or directing/ funding same, mandatory life sentence followed by deportation.I also think the burka should be banned   And that all immigrants need to respect the laws and customs of  the country they inhabit. The Brits have tied themselves up in knots about this.BUT this article is rampant scaremongering and you cannot tarnish an entire population for the actions of sad, lonely, mentally ill, radicalised idiots. FACT- murdering terrorists are TD’s. FACT- kinihans and the Alphabet RA will kill more Irish people this or any other year rather than some imaginary terrorist
When I saw the headline I thought it was about politicians…
Hope they’re also monitering our political parties as they don’t have our  interests at heart too
Non alined non aggressiveLast time I checked we were still allowing Shannon to be used as a staging post for American refueling so you might say mr Kenny we are( passively aggressive ) bit like yourself kenny
Are the blueshits and Flip-flops ,sorry Fine Gael and Fianna Fail under investigation has they dont have the country’s interest at heart ?  Big business and cronies are looked after all right ,
Have we learned nothing pandering to the Roman Church cult ? Now we are letting in members of a backward  death cult whose sole aim is to “convert ” all people and the left in politics agree with this . All those that preach hate should be kicked back to whatever shit hole they came from .
Just another government failure for which they have no excuse but they’ll insure the desperation continues, promote the fear and divide the populous without clarity because that’s how they manipulate “the public interest” for their own benefit.
They’d be as well parking outside Dáil Éireann, that’s where they’ll find the highest concentration of individuals who do not have this country’s interests at heart!!!!Parasitic career politicians are most of them, leaders in incompetence, corrupt, negligence, cronyism and greed…
As long as people are talking to imaginary friends, they have to tolerate other people,  talking to their imaginary friends. If you talk to imaginary people and you are potentially dangerous – your should be isolated from people who is mentally sound. But majority of you, guys, call it a human right – the right to exersize religion. No religion – no problem, no guilt feeling about mentally sick people.
@Borderline State: A large part of the problem is people believing this violence to be inspired solely by religion, and islam in particular. It’s a lazy kind of get-out clause which ignores all other contributory factors such as European and American imperialistic aggression in the region and allows the commenter to feel superiour at the same time because haven’t we in the west sooo moved on from that ‘sky fairy’ nonsense . . .
@Neil Mcdonough: Allah Akabar Might give you a clue as to their reason for terror. They don’t need any prompting, it’s all written down for them by Mohammad in that book. So do you still think religion does’nt come into it???
@Just Me: So you’re saying if it wasn’t for islam, the west could bomb the shit out of the ME without fear of reprisals? Ffs . . .
@Just Me: And might I add that I have muslim neighbours and colleagues, come accross muslims all the time on the metro, in shops, the street etc yet even though you say “They don’t need any prompting, it’s all written down for them by Mohammad in that book.”, no-one is trying to do me any harm. Don’t leave Ireland whatever you do, the paranoia you’d experience in any modern city might be to much for you . . .Clown.
@Neil Mcdonough:Do you know the difference between religious Islam and political Islam? you Isalmo apologists being morons, I’ll explain….Take praying, praying itself is harmless, no one has a problem with that. Now for example in Paris, have you ever seen whole streets being commandeered and cordoned off by Muslims, plenty of video online anyway, well that’s political Islam at work, it’s a statement, letting the Kuffar, Infidels and Dhimmis (yes, you’re included) know that we’re here and were taking over, a statement of intent 5 times a day, every day of the year, and as the numbers grow the next street gets taken, and so on.FYI Islamic aggression precedes any interference by the West, before there was even the notion of the West or Oil…grab a History book ffs.
@Neil Mcdonough: I have lived and worked in many countries and my eyes have been opened to the islamic way of life. It’s not compatible with western values. As for having muslim neighbours you might think life is a bed of roses now, but wait till they drive property prices down and take over your neighborhood. The experience I seen in every modern city in Europe had nothing to do with paranoia but on reality. Then again those countries did not think this would happen. Reality means we should learn from the mistakes of others and stand up for our culture and way of life. If you’re so enamored by them go and live in their countries and see how you get on.
@Just Me: a cara- ever think that you might be somewhat paranoid?
Me like ice-cweam!
@Grainne Abdulaziz:Well that’s a giveaway, so which one of the screaming sisters are you then? hahaha
We’re on our own so if the shit hits the fan. What a bunch of total wasters. They can’t piss water protesters off enough but they’re depending on the sporadic outbreak of the intelligence committee (that meets up when noireen isn’t harassing her own men or setting them on meter installation opponents) to ward off any fanatics that end up driven to distraction by the price of rice crispies in mosney. The drug-driving police would raise oodles of revenue if they parked outside the dail.
Bertie Ahern.
Catholics and muslims. whats the differance , their all as twisted and deluded as each other. catholics bum you muslims bomb you.
Anything to avoid supporting the sinn fein motion.
@Seamus Og: Dont be surprised. Less than 14% of the country supports SF.
@Honeybadger197: Incorrect. Thats the figure for people who voted. Most polling shows SF to be the most popular party for the 18-35, sometimes even 18-50, age demographic.
@The Risen: popularity among people who don’t vote is about as useful as Monopoly money in the supermarket, not worth the paper it’s printed on and completely meaningless in the real world
@Jerry: Voters are a subset of the electorate, who are themselves a subset of ‘the country’. Just correcting an blatantly incorrect statement.
@Honeybadger197: what’s that got to do with supporting a motion?Do you suggest that no party should support another parties motion regardless of its content?
@Honeybadger197: really they are only one seat short of DUP in the north of this country.
Fianna Fail are weak & without principle
@Kevin Higgins: Indeed the opposite side of the same coin FG are on……
Big week next week in the Dail, between the motions and water charge committe vote.Good stuff., hopefully followed by an election.
This is just to avoid supporting the SF motion. Instead to fool people that they are going with the public mood, they introduce this motion knowing FG will support it. The fact is both parties are fully aware the policing authority lack the powers for such an exercise and was set up by FG to fob off the public and to distance the dept of justice from the Gardai scandals.
Rightly or wrongly the commissioner days are numbered because garda are a political football. Its the justice minister responsibility to sort this out but Fitzgerald is both incompetent and clueless.  The garda commissioner directly reports to Fitzgerald who is too busy covering her own ass by any means.Both O’Sullivan and Fitzgerald both have to be replaced as they both collectively aren’t the solution.Reports inquiries commissions are just kicking the can down the road. Long enough for Fitzgerald pension to be secured. Only after Fitzgerald leaves this post will it be possible for real reform.
@tom: every day that Sullivan stays as commissioner makes the Gardai a laughing stockAny other country and this joker would be sacked for gross incompetence at the very least.Her attitude towards whistleblowers alone makes her not fit to lead any enquiries intothis. FG and FF keep propping her up knowing that if she goes, they will.She has destroyed any confidence that was left in the Gardai by the public.Time to leave…now!
Sick of hearing about this . Just sack her ! She is being paid out of public money , i.e mine and yours .
Anybody that believes what FIANNA Failed  says hasn’t learned much in the last 20 years
Is there no individual or  institution left in the country with a shred of honesty or integrity, banking, insurers, politics the law. All rotten
It’ll say basically whatever will get them the most votes because FF are the populist party.
For FF, politics is more like playing a game and actual governance and political management is and alien concept to them (ie: no management during them financial crisis almost bankrupting the country). Their strategy is win as much support as possible, then pull the plug on this gov and force an election, whereas if they had decent principles, they’d have done this long ago.
Waffle and obstufacation Independent T.D.s  supporting Government will keep their eyes on the pension qualifying egg timer on their desks especially the independent junior ministers. When the golden pension nest egg is secured you will have an election not a chance in hell before this is the Political model Irish style.
Party before country.I’m finished with FF.The senior management of AGS and the Justice Minister are not fit for purpose yet FF and the IA are propping them up.Disgusting
Another fence for FF to sit on. We don’t have confidence but ask the police force to recommend her removal which FG will reject and the saga continues. FF have no morals, positions or opinions. Everything is a fudge. They are trying to be in government and opposition at the same time and judging by recent polls it’s working.  People are stupid.
They must be far enough ahead in the Polls…Fianna Fail using the McCabe issue as a political football  is absolutely disgusting.
Diana Fail are down the wrong road here, someone has told Micheal Martin to get back a bit. They made a bad mistake to follow SF on this, and now they are desperately trying to regain lost ground. They also did the wrong thing on the water, changing their minds to try and gain  bit of ground. I would not have much confidence in Martin right now, that’s for sure.
@Eugene Comaskey: mehole is useless, but Edna is that useless he makes mehole look good. F.G keeping Edna as leader shows that not only is the leader a coward but the whole party is.
Ah Mr. Martin most of us have no confidence in the current government. How about moving that motion?????????
They are a damaged brand now . No doubt about it . One time in Ireland they enjoyed the confidence of many but now I doubt it that even in my lifetime their reputation will recover. I don’t think their corrupt at heart; there are just a lot of amateurs in it who managed to swindle a job in an organisation that doesn’t care . As my friend said, ‘If they were a private company they would be gone down the swanny long go’.
Nothing
Absolute disaster of a government Fine Gael. They have perfected the art of positive spin while the very foundations of society are crumbling beneath them.
The AG has no credibility left she cannot remain in office.
@@mdmak33: Brendan Howlin hopped up and down like a raving little lunatic last week calling for Garda Commissioners resignation. Now the focus is on the actions or rather inactions and subsequent hype created by AG Marie Whelan, a Labour Party appointee, and little Brendan circles the Labour wagons. Hypocrite.
@@mdmak33: This is the same AG that also didn’t see the possible banking privacy issue regarding the Siteserve / Dennis O Brien investigation. Thereby delaying that process.
@John Clarke: “Howling” Howlin should snap his little  fingers and call for Garda back up
@John Clarke: correct howlin is an a1 hypocrite this is the man who increased road tax and vat in 1997 to compensate for water charges being removed, history will judge the liebour party as being one of the most corrupt parties when in office!
@@mdmak33: For once I agree with Shatter, the AG acted incompetently in this case and has to go. Also it’s not the only time she has given dubious legal advice to the government.
@Just Me: FG must be disguted this is coming up now just when they want to rely on her (politicised) opinion on Irish Water.
@John Clarke: ahh I wouldnt pay much attention to likkle Bren…nice lollipop and he’ll settle back down
Pthe liebour party , the most self serving fat cat mafia there is!
When the bar is set so low for accountability and responsibility this is what you get another white wash of a report.
This stinks to high heaven. How are we supposed to accept that no one knew what was going on when the recording equipment was replaced, twice! Someone knew. And those who claim to have not known, should have. We need an external audit of our police force inmediately and an election. FF are only propping up this government as they are up to their necks in all of it.
If we are going down the resignation route surely the people seeking tge resignation of Arlene Foster and Noirin O Sullivan should now be doing the same for AG Whelan.
Maybe we should have an enquiry into the fennelly. Report?   A cock up. Doesnt really matter. Does it?     Sure we have lots of them.   ..and we all know the garda. Didnt really understand what was going on….  Does anybody…?    Some were mischievous.   What exactly does that meanIt all fills one with confidence.   I dont think
Lies upon lies upon lies…
@xor: or in your case alternative facts perhaps? Don’t like the findings  invent your own narrative?
Shatter outside the tent. Pissing in.
@Horiscope Bollox: he’s dead right. I’m not mad about the fella, but he’s dead right. They pissed on him, in fact, shat on him from a height, causing him to resign and subsequently loose his seat, damaged his reputation. He’s completely been exonerated by the courts and by this commission of inquiry. He’s every right to piss on them, they deserve it.
@Horiscope Bollox: Wasn’t he the honest man that pointed out to the Dáil exactly what Rehab were up to with the money donated to the charity? I thought highly of him as a TD and still do. He seems one of the few who earned his elected position. The government were quick enough to send him out of the room when he called it as he saw it.
The chickens are coming home to roost here, the game is opening up a little bit and we are only entering the second quarter. Mr Callinan is now beginning to see a bit of space opening up, and I Hope he makes a few scores. This pushed the media back a good lot, I heard one well known Buck trying to pick holes in the report yesterday evening , he was getting bogged down. I suppose some of them will say, sure it Is only  his opinion. Well it is what matters in this case. Hopefully, the Enquiry that is about to happen will also rattle some media cages. The AG and Kenny appeared to have jumped the gun, bad judgement, what do you think?, time for them to get on their bikes..Shatter and Callinan are now in the clear.
The calls were only recorded for training and quality purposes.
Shatter is one of those people that just wont go away.. Maybe he should seek the role of Sinn Fein Rabbi like  Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog also known as Isaac Herzog or Hertzog and deploy to the Kisnet where that sort of politics is the norm
no one is this country seems to have the aim to piss into the tent and drench the lot of them!
It’s nice to know at least on arm of govt ‘listens’
http://freemanireland.ning.com/forum/topics/too-hot-for-facebook-the-truth-about-brendan-howlin-and-his-relat
I take it that “Merkel informs kenny of plan to use Ireland as a stick to beat Britain with” was too long a headline?
@The Risen: lol!!!
@The Risen:https://www.facebook.com/Lugh.Iwerju/videos/1280979505343499/Their body language tells you that the whole of the EU is in trouble…
@Alois Irlmaier: get over yourself… you are seeing what you want to see. Its pretty obvious these two get on well and thats good for Ireland.
@H0tt3rBank3r: jamming being populist, like his mount joy square paymasters.
Alan Brogan. Who is in mountjoy square. Have a little think and get back to me good lad.
@The Risen: Enda Kenny, Fuhrer Merkel’s representative in Ireland……Quisling!
@Alan Brogan: Hahahah can’t even insult people properly. What’s that saying “A little bit of knowledge is a dangerous thing” I think you mean Parnell Square genuis  :-)
@H0tt3rBank3r: All done for the cameras, fake smiles and overboard fakeness al the way, the more fake they make it then the more I wonder how far up to our necks are we in it? Can you not see the fakeness?
@ray.farrelly: Probably Joy lol.
@H0tt3rBank3r: How is it good for Ireland as Merkel made bank debt into tax payers debt then called it austerity that crippled Ireland but let Germany exports explode which was good for Germany because it was manufacturing. So as Ireland was under Germany’s thumb as they did 8 budgets for us for austerity at the same time Germany bloomed and also why does Merkel act like the EU President, nothing in the EU can be done without Merkel’s say so, not even the Troika?
We’ll want to keep the Germans onside. Good move. It will be nice to be part of the bigger entity for once when dealing with the Brits as an adversary.
Is your head genuinely so far up your ass that you believe the tripe you type?
@Fred Jensen: You want an EU Political Union then???
@Fred Jensen: Fred our enemy is Merkel’s Germany, not the UK.
@Gus Sheridan: We have no enemies Gus, regardless of the fantasies you’ve created for yourself. We have partners and right now our neighbours have lost the plot and are not behaving like rational, realistic or even desireable partners. We are right to continue to play our role with the 27 other members of our union.
@Ed Magnier: there was me thinking when Merkel was forcing us to pay a large amount of the cost of the EU banking debt (note cost, not actual debt), the UK were giving us extra loans at very favourable rates to help us through a difficult time. Now remind us if you would what Merkel and her cronies did to Portugal, Greece, Spain, Italy and of course us. I know I I believe it be the mire desirable partners.
Has she taught our Enda to sit and roll over yet?
Enda I missed you but don’t you dare put water into public ownership.
@Scundered: “Come in I missed you”“Thanks Ma”
Welkommen Enda, ich liebe dich. I missed you.. my number one fawning footman. You vill do my bidding, like a good little pixie man.
Angela Merkle -Any chance we could have debt written off as promised as ireland a “special case”? Remember Eamon Gilmore boasting this was a”gamechanger” 5 YEARS AGO NOW?Any chance you could give a EU directive to give Irish tenants German tenancy rights? Merkle please Tell Enda off for keeping VRT against the EU rules. Tell him off for trying “directive say” excuse to impose water charges.
@Abcd: Will she make him take OUR 19BILLION from Apple & tax ALL Coropations the FULL 12.5% they are SUPPOSED to pay. Will she also slap him for selling off ireland to VULTURE funds? Meanwhile we have thousands & counting homeless & hundreds of thousands living in poverty yet Coropations & VULTURE funds can have endless handouts
@Abcd: better to take the billions now before Trump calls all these American companies home
So May meets with Tusk while Merkel has to settle for Kenny. UK 1 – Germany 0.
@Damocles:Yeah…that’s what Brexit is. An England vs Germany football game….two world wars and one world cup and all that.
@Damocles: Kenny looks like a jack in the box in the embassy tweet?
@Damocles: Enda already had his meeting with Tusk… do try and keep up.
@Fred Jensen: and the Germans always came second……..
Germany always looks after Ireland’s best interests. Funding the saving of the Irish banks was a great generosity.  Big sister will save us. Trust her. Trust Germany.
@Tony Daly: Exactly. They will save as many banks as they have to in order to keep the EU and the euro propped up. The next banking crisis is not far off, Merkel’s promise not to intervene to help two big German banks in the event of a crisis could be shown up for what it was. A complete lie.Of more interest to us will be will Merkel be so keen to protect Irish interests when it does not necessarily fit German or EU policy to do so? Merkel has German and EU interests at heart. At this time those interests may coincide with Irish interests. Make the most of the opportunity is my advice. When Brexit is all settled, however it pans out, you can bet it will be business as usual.
@Tony Daly: The Germans will turn out not to be friends….
@Rodan: anyone who believes that Germany and Merkel have not already intervened in the basket case that is Deutsche Bank is either wilfully ignorant or deluded. So, over to Fred……
Did she pinch his cheek or ruffle his hair? It didn’t say in the article….bet she did both.
Enda Kenny paid a visit to Germany today.And I paid a visit to my toilet also today and ended up doing a similar thing as he did…
@Alois Irlmaier: You discussed Brexit with the Chancellor in your toilet?
@Alois Irlmaier: hope you had a breakthrough
@Paul Tao: It allows me to say that I was in the tube station with the echo lol.
@Ray Kelleher: Put it this way, the glass ceiling went?
Enda – Hi Angle, may I come in?Merkel –  Yes! Come in and sit over there. Speak when spoken to and if you are a good little boy we may throw you some scraps. Oh! And yes thanks for bailing our banks out!
@Declan Kearns: The Britism PM seeing the U.S. President in the movie, The Rise and Rise of Michael Rimmer?
@Declan Kearns: Enda whispers to Angela “I have the gimp suit in the car”
The Loyalists are going to love this!!…Little Wullie Fraser will be foaming at the mouth!!
Should we learn German instead of English these days? No need for Irish any away.
@KD: I already did!
It is her election year, I hope they kick her out the oulde Europa herself???
@Alois Irlmaier: You can forget about that! With Germany doing better than ever and with germans loving stability she will never be voted out.
@Rui Firmino: Deutschland Deutschland uber alles….sing our masters anthem now schnell!
@Rui Firmino: Us talking about Merkel gives a bad name to Germany they don’t deserve but yet what a targe she is, she is like fly dirt in the summer… Once you see one spot then you can see it everywhere like her with the EU but yet the markets are worse now than they have been since 1929 crash, worse property markets since 2007 and worse than the dot com market from 2000. Something will give and when it does, then Merkel should not be in charge when it does go belly up? Brexit might save us then???
Merkel missed her little gofor.thats all Kenny is to the EU.
I missed you..but my strap on missed you more..bend..
Is there an “Emoji” for that..
Embarrassing as f@#k!
@sparky: A bum with a face with red cheeks?
@sparky:http://www.dailyedge.ie/an-post-emoji-stamps-3315997-Mar2017/
@Alois Irlmaier. I’ll never forgive u…I’ve the image of Merkels bum in my mind now.. jasyus Endas is even worse. .
@sparky: Bancing cheek to cheek but there are worst images than that, how about???https://crazycraig524.files.wordpress.com/2013/10/the-asphyx-asphyx.jpg
@sparky: Worst still if Merkel and Kenny replacing the two eejits in… The Crying game?http://68.media.tumblr.com/c5a4e2179e96e82e0f1534b63ac516a3/tumblr_inline_nrbjwfwVki1spnsao_500.png
Go on the enda, you’re in there!!
Have you got a nice job in Europe lined up for me Merkel wait until I get water charges through or maybe even sell our water.
Merkel’s Puppet
Compare trade numbers with Germany compared to U.K. Germany don’t give a rats about Ireland. Uk is our bread and butter
Sit enda sit !!! Good dog
Germany will force us to pay for Britain leaving and our spineless leaders will just bow to Merkel.
Can we have our country back Britain?
Ewwwwww.  You just know Merkel shtoops Kenny in the hole with a strapon.  (not that there’s anything wrong with that I guess, if that’s what you’re into).
2 traitors!! Sums it up in few words.
She’s kissing ass because she’s afraid, god they really take him for a total buffoon!
She obviously appreciates the “Sieg Heil …what do you want us to do for you now?”"
Bend over Enda, ill just fetch my strapon.
What does it matter what the report reveals, it’s not like anyone will be held accountable.
What’s Kenny still doing here? Thought he was going after his American jolly?
Another day another report,  another report another commission, another commission another inquiry.  The lust is enda- less now.  We will need to build a whole new library to house the milluons of words uttered in the variiys investigations.  All to no avail.
@gowfc@yahoo.com W: list!
@gowfc@yahoo.com W: millions..and various….sorry about typos!
Same old story. Nothing to see here. Move along!!
Has there ever been a more inept party in government than Fine Gael?One scandal after another, one cover up after another, one delay after another.A party completely lacking in ethical values and backbone desperately clinging to power at any cost.
Bring back the Brehon Laws our true legal system.!
Bellenda must be running out of carpets to stuff things under at this stage…Taoiseach’s office must resemble the alps..
So those who come forward to tell the truth become the perceived criminals, those who hid or tried to disguise the truth get pensions and apparent immunity from prosecution but in the meantime those who nothing about either are called “officials”. Either their “incompetence” is actually intentional or they simply couldn’t officiate a breath – test in a brewery. So what exactly do we need them for?
@The Unknown Souldier: apple o g’s, should say “those who DO nothing about either”
I see our Great Leader buggered off to Europe again and therefore was unable to say anything about it, funny that… I hope he remember to keep his “hearing aid” firmly in his ear, just in case he gets flustered and cant speak…….
Tell it to the judge
So,,,    we’ll  give  it  a ‘guarded’  welcome  then…….   strictly  off   the  ‘cuff’ ……   of  course??
Edna looks like somebody who forgot to put in their false teeth…
@Charles Martel:He’s keeping tight lipped.
Unless it’s dropping on endas head and causing him to retire, I don’t care. The entire county is corrupt.
The report reveals Enda should go but the clown won’t leave the circus what next the Guinness World Record the the longest fool in Ireland!!!
Get ready for more fake news.
It’s move on for the Media anyway, nothing to report here. I heard B-H trying to say on Drivetime this evening , ” no evidence to implicate Garda wrongdoing, but also no evidence to prove to the contrary ”  now isn’t that typical of the Media, they want a big story, especially if they can put the Gardai down. Judge Fennelly has upset their applecart.
justice system needs to be more tough then Gardai would be do a better Job
Give them another pay rise , good job sweeping this one under the carpet , do they think all the people are stupid .
@William Mcgee:UNFORTUNATELY we are S-T-U-P-I-D
ff the flip flop party.
Either the top brass go or we need a new policing serivice in the style of the PSNI. The fish rots head after all. Public confidence in the Garda Siochana has been fatally wounded possibly to beyond the point of no return. Certainly FGs refusal to act decisively has not helped.
@The Risen: Edna has been found to be lying but it hasn’t shamed him either
@The Risen: Look her husband was carrying out top level investigations and reporting to her. how is that right?
Fianna Fail are being spineless due to a domino affect, which they fear would happen, throwing them into a general election. They want to stay in this Dail longer as to still claim party funding, to pay off their still outstanding €1.5 Million debt. Well known and reported.So until their debts are cleared and their pockets fill up more, the rest of the country has to suffer with traitor Fine Gael and Fianna Fail u-turns – the latest one on water meter usage – which will additionally cost the taxpayer another €1.5 Million Euro for 300,000 additional meters now ordered. All this is documented and reported.Its party before people again – before doing what’s actually right!
The ironic part is that if there was an election tomorrow, Fianna fail would be most likely to be leading the opportunity to form the next government – and they are turning this opportunity down right now.Many must wonder how their core fans and members must feel about that!
In the name of god, FF do not have confidence in commissioner,but will not support SF no confidence motion.stop playing politics with people’s lives,this is driving fear into the public.
Whatever suits yerselves lads! The decision will be based on what’s best for yerselves and FF, regardless of the best interests of the country.
Overpaid, incompetent muppets playing politics between themselves.
Suire why not? They’ve had plenty of time now to see how the people are thinking. FF the fence sitting party.
@Les Behan: Does anybody at all think it is odd that she is the boss and her other half who is high level reports to her?
They wont do it!
FF considering supporting Labour;s no confidence motion, but won’t support a SF motion. Political shenanigans at it’s hypocritical finest.
@Just Me: Most folk dont forget the rousing reception for garda killers at the SF Ard Fheis. They dont forget how SF lobbied for special GFA terms for these same garda killers. Im still unsure how shooting a garda dead was going to offer civil rights, parity of esteem and a united ireland though. Answers on a postcard to the usual address.
@Honeybadger197: Your post has nothing at all to do with the article but you know that. As soon as SF is mentioned you jump on it and spout your usual hate, get a life, move on or you’ll be left a bitter old man.
@Just Me: Whatever. You were wondering out loud why the SF motion wasnt supported. You then mentioned hypocrisy. Ironically. Speaking of moving on, would you say that to the bloody Sunday survivors and familys? I sincerely doubt it – will they be left bitter too? More hypocrisy. Next.
The Commissioner is part of the problem culture, not part of the solution.The Commissioner is retaining office only because of politics, not merit.
If this is true credit where its due. Not a Fianna Fáil voter or supporter but delighted they are beginning to see the light on this issue. If they have the political stomach to see this through and force genuine reform there will undoubtedly be an election. Reality is Fine Gael will be the first government party to oversee the loss of two garda commissioners in disgrace, 1 justice minister and  quite possibly another whose position as justice minister and Táinaiste  has been fundamentally damaged and weakened by these endless controversies with the Gardai. Time for endless reviews is over, its time for genuine root and branch reform.
@Séadhna Logan: except FF don’t want another election so will not do it.  Considering it is language to shut the front bench up.
@Séadhna Logan: the light they see is the anger of the public that a gimpy commissioner is being kept on. Remember they are the flip flop party
So Let me get this right – SF put forward a motion of no confidence – FF slow to assess the situation – will not support SF motion & ask Labour to join them in a no confidence motion because heaven forbid they support SF as they are their biggest threat- FF playing politics with a serious issue is my verdict.
@Cllr Malachy Quinn: Agree. Anything FF do is for the good of FF. Labour are trying to be relevant again. Labour are and always were the prostitutes of the Dail, I hope people remember the hypocrisy of FF on this and the water issue.
Why is Enda willing to die on this hill? He continues to voice his support although she clearly doesn’t deserve it, probably hoping to leave this turd of an issue on his successors plate. They can come in and sack her and talk about it being a new day!
Might? So basically depends on your agenda not whats right? We all know labour are trying to get back into our good books again.  Fianna fail can stuff it
FF justice spokesman said on Tuesday that the cannot put down a motion of no confidence in commissioner up to government to sack her ! Today the say the might back labours vote of no confidence new politics how are you !
Considering???? Consider….  consid…..    con…   con…  con??????ar’nt    we     just??????
some corrupt idiots have no confidence in some other corrupt idiotsWhat a great wee country
You do know DOB sold his shareholding in Topaz last year?
@Boycott Topaz: pretend to have no confidence
I can’t think of two more corrupt parties coming together than ff and liebour..
Come on Fianna Fáil ! Have some balls and do it then
Labour? What all three of them?
Flip flop, will they, wont they…..no integrity from FF as usual, dodgy fuc**ers
Fair play F/Fail u are great. Where is Steven Donnelly not word out of him since he joined that wonderful party.
Another review!
I couldn’t give a monkey’s who wields the axe once it happens… and hurry up ! The woman is a an eyesore  and an embarrassment to the country .
FF attitude here makes sense, the entire garda is corrupt, they have too much power, are totally unaccountable and it is the fault of the management. Powers of dismissal must be given to the regulator / garda ombudsman. Politicians also need to stop being scared of … their driver, not getting off for speeding / drunk driving, major doses of blue flu. 99% of the rank and file are probably ok / decent enough, if not a little obsessed with the excessive power that has been bestowed by politicians, this also results in them thinking that they are entitled to megabucks in their remuneration as is the current situation.
Thank god we actually have some people worthy of representing us in the dail, people who actually want the best for irish people.
Massive kudos to Clare Daly on this, she goes to show that independents are the only TDs seemingly capable of providing opposition and questioning the corrupt state. Worth remembering when election time comes around.
@Revolting Peasant: xla
@Theunpopularpopulist:Clare Daly?! A great politician?Fair dues to her on this issue but as regarding her overall performance she seems to be aiming for the “free everything pay for nothing vote”.
kenny promised to look in to it. Yeah right, it was forgotten before the first pint was finished
@William Clay: Kenny usually drinks soft drinks in public. You wont see him in the Dail bar very often.
Once again we see the interests of big pharmacy being put before the rights & needs if the citizens of our country ,,, who serves who here ???? Are big pharmas here to benefit the people or are the people here to benefit big pharmas ????
@Peter Carroll: CTN alert.
Well done Clare for bringing this scandal up in the Dáil, it is a particularly disgusting state of affairs that GlaxoSmithKlien were given indemnity over this. It would be worth seeing the minutes of whatever meeting took place to arrange this, Harney should be on trial for child abuse and treason.80 kids is only what are known about there may be more with lesser symptoms, there may be adults affected by this vaccine and what about the babies of the pregnant mothers who were encouraged to get vaccinated? We simply don’t know the full scope of the damage that was done by this multinational corporation
Corruption in HSE ? Never …..
@Willy Malone: …on a Sunday.The rest of the week? All too possible.
As much as I dislike Daly, this one stank long before people started developing narcolepsy.
tip of the iceberg..I guess this is another one that will be ignored and brushed under the carpet
The injustices keeps coming and nothing being done by the FG. FF clowns.
Clare Daly and Mick Wallace are the only TDs that seem able to expose the endemic corruption this government is engaged in.Fair play to them.
@Dave Doyle: Mick Wallace shouldn’t be allowed into the dail until he pays the state the €2 milllion he owes us. Think of how many nurses that would pay for?
@Theunpopularpopulist: less than one over a standard 30-year career.
@Dave Doyle: another CTN
If anybody is interested in finding out more about this scandal then this is a good starting place.http://www.aclsolicitors.ie/news-events/current-news/staying-awake-and-pandemrix-the-swine-flu-scandalPlenty of reference links.
@Revolting Peasant: so are you claiming that firm of solicitors, not doctors or scientists, is not biased?
William, where do I claim anything? have you got your reading glasses on? if not go and get them, I’ll wait.That post is to give a link for anyone interested in further reading on the subject. At the end of the report it supplies links to the references used for the report. Those references are from publications such as The Lancet, De Spiegel and the FT, so you can take your reading further if you so wish.Now next time you want to jump in with a comment try and get it right.
@Revolting Peasant: you claim there’s a “scandal” and link us to a solicitor’s firm aka ambulance chasers and a few newspapers known for publishing scientifically illiterate nonsense like the IT. The Lancet article is concerned with the flu. So what? This is  BS.
@William Grogan: If you don’t find it scandalous that GlaxoSmithKlein knowingly promoted the use of a vaccine that contained an accelerant proved to cause neurological damage, for a hyped pandemic, and that our government then granted indemnity without knowing the full scope of the damage that’s been caused, an indemnity costing thousands of euro using up precious state resources, that means the kids affected will only receive minimum redress and your only concern is that a solicitors firm has taken their case and written about it, then that’s fine you’re entitled to your opinion.
I have just developed a level of respect for Clare Daly after reading this…how dare governments put our children & others at risk…Clare has gone where others are afraid to go…question the Govt’ about tactics relating to vaccines…HPRA should be dragged in there to answer also…disgraceful.
If this young boy were in Egypt the government would send a doctor immediately to check on him.
Clare Daly and Mick Wallace make the rest of the TDs look like bewildered clowns.
It’s highly unlikely that this has anything to do with the vaccine. It won’t stop the ambulance chasers though.
Nobody ever seems to mention the crisis posed by the sudden outbreak of swine flu , or the 3189 cases and 22 deaths in Ireland that year.
That said, there does seem to be a proven link between this one vaccine and narcolepsy. Compensation would seem appropriate.
@Tom the Bomb: From what I understand the level of fatalities from this particular strain of flu was less than the usual strains that go around. Flu is a killer we shouldn’t loose sight of that.
@Tom the Bomb: no there isn’t and be very careful using the word proof.
Between the scandals in the gardai, and now the HSE/HPRA giving a master class in how to get your ass covered, I’m beginning to think that all public bodies should need investigating from the top down, from the taoseach to the ministers to the heads of each body and so on
What does Enda Kenny have to do with it though?
Why all the negative comments about Enda Kenny.  He is the leader of the country and this is a positive news story.  He should be there.  There is such negativity towards politicians in general.  But here’s a news flash Anyone on this thread is entitled to run to become a TD, work their way to the top of their party and lead the country if they have the will and the nous!It will involve working every weekend, listening to every complaint about potholes, sitting through endless meetings where nothing gets done and inching forward on everything.  Finally you will be detested by almost everyone, held up as a subject of ridicule, have nasty things said about you on social media and news forums, suffer continuous back-stabbing from your colleagues…. and have to put yourself through an election campaign every 4 – 5 years.Not for me.  They couldn’t pay me enough to do it.
Our Taoiseach is a glorified PR man. Strangely never has time to go on TV or radio shows where he’ll be asked questions and actually held accountable to the people.
He will milk it for tax
@FlopFlipU:Is that not the idea behind incentivising companies to setup and expand in Ireland, we get a tax take from them or are u suggesting we shouldnt charge tax
So far all bar one comment are about Enda Kenny and every comment is negative. You lot need to chill the f/ck out
@Emeralds: where is the Minister for Jobs when Richard was  then Minister he was the one who announced the Jobs has Enda now taken that position as well as Defence  Will he get extra pension  for holding all  these position
@pat seery: See what I mean?
I used to work for Version 1, we had 220 people back in 2012, brilliant to see an Irish company so successful in what is a really tough industry. They are a great company to work for.  :)
I remember in an old job of mine they announced a load of new jobs and an email was sent around saying Enda and his lackeys would be arriving but not until 6.30 or so and could people stay back to meet and greet him, barely anyone wanted to and most had to be bribed with time off in the end.People are seriously deluded voting for either FG or FF
@Jonny: unfortunately there are no real alternatives to those to. that’s why I don’t vote
Roy Dowling. That’s a cop out there are alway’s alternatives.
The man is a fool….and where is he when massive job losses are announced. Just go away….
@Paul Furey: Kenny is a fool but can you name me one politician who’d turn up to announce job losses. Seriously.
@Paul Furey: …..he wasn’t in Govenment when all the job losses were announced, that was 2008-2009 when the country crashed.
@Austin Foley: I know that…..but there have been tons of jobs loses since then. And I know no politician ever will ever announce any jobs loses……ffs!This sort of mind numbing PR from these fools is nauseating. And it’s even worse that these fools think it does their profile some good. Most of the voters see thru them….but as this is politics the fools will continue to play their silly games and we will continue to moan and wait for the next next election!
@Paul Furey: What is nauseating is the never ending complaining and moaning from people whenever a politician raises their head to announce anything good for the country. People blamed the politicians when jobs were lost (and for good reason) and now there is a load of complaints when 300 jobs are being announced. They are being complained about for not being out and about with their constituents yet at the same time, they are being complained about for not being in the Dail. Can you see the pattern here, or need I go on?So while you call them ‘fools’, did you vote for one of your fools? If you did, what does that make you? If you didn’t vote, then you hardly in a position to voice your opinion on the democratic process when you fail to take part in that same process…you are of course entitled to voice your opinion, it’s just that it’s worthless.So after all your giving out, why don’t you run in the next election? If you’re elected, you can announce job losses all day and be labelled ‘fool’ (and much worse) by faceless keyboard warriors.
So something like 5 jobs this year, 25 next year, and 270 the year after. For the IDA and gov, 300 jobs created! Probably ambitious profit targets in the equation too.
@Adrian: This crap is all smoke and mirrors. Saying that 300 jobs will be filled over the next three years is like saying “I know the results of Brexit and its implications”. Nobody Knows that, not even Enda Kenny or Thresa May for that matter. The EU may be gone in three years time, we may be in the middle of WW3. Britain may go to war with Spain over Gibraltar. Far to many variables over a three year period. I’m sure companies made announcements like this in 2005 and we all know what happened 3 years later.Ive no problem with statements like, “50 jobs over the next 6 months”, because these statements are usually deliverable.
Their website isn’t very mobile friendly.
Sounds like the type of operation that will destroy 30,000 jobs; doubt you will be able to knock on the managers door if they screw you over.
@DeFonz: What are you talking about? Why would it cost 30,000 jobs? Who is going to screw you over.Loads of companies don’t need a full IT staff permanently and just for one off projects and they hire the likes of Version1 to fill that temporary need. Mostly it is to stop staff wasting time rather than job loss.
What I see they look for people with “experience in Banking/Asset management industry”. Shearers needed ?
Like I’ve said before, I’m glad all these jobs are coming into Ireland, but WHY is Dublin always the location for these jobs? Wouldn’t be better to locate these jobs elsewhere, to revitalise rural Ireland?
I don’t know why it’s called leaders questions because their never answered.
@Just Me:And I don’t know why it’s called leaders questions because there isn’t ONE real ‘leader’ there…
@Just Me: well it’s not called Leaders answers…
@Just Me: Plus there are no leaders…
@Just Me: it should be called leader dodges questions!
@Just Me: I don’t know who politicians/and union leaders keep calling those expensive teak, oak etc desks as tables.
@Just Me: It is called leaders questions not leaders answers lol.
It’s not leaders question when enda wears an earpiece in the dail nearly everyday and his crony advisors tells him what to say word for word.what an embarrassment as a so called leader of a country.makes it look worse when coveney and varadkar don’t even have the balls to challenge what i consider the weakest leader Ireland has ever had
@dick dastardly: Someone should sneak in a signal jammer…
@dick dastardly: And here is one…http://www.irishmirror.ie/news/irish-news/defence-force-below-full-strength-10147818
Enda Kenny is an embarrassment as a leader, as a government representative and as an Irish citizen. He has done nothing for the people of this country and any decisions he has made have always been in the better interests of those in the upper financial echelons.The sooner he is out of that office, the better. It can’t be nice knowing most of the Irish population hate you, but when all of your decisions benefit your rich buddies and not the ordinary citizen, what does he expect? A lot of angry people on the breadline as a result of his and his government’s decisions.Enda, Enda, Enda, OUT, OUT, OUT.
@Rachel: what a load of nonsense.
@Rachel: Jasus, don’t let him out!  Especially if he is that bad.
Are they going to mention why they’re cutting the rural broadband scheme by half a million homes? A move that will lead to delays and increased cost.So someone is going to make a lot of money..
Why does Enda Kenny wear an earpiece? Is he really that spineless that he can’t answer by himself?
@Eamonn Sheen: to put it simply, yes he is the most spineless he could be.
@Eamonn Sheen: Denis O’Brien is on the other end
When you say opposition you’re not including ff in that, right?
Basically it’s what does she have on those ministers keeping her in ?
@Wynnner:  Spot on and I would like to know what that is, probably lots
We need to know was the massaging of crime statistics deliberate and if so, who ordered it – politicians included.
@Rosa Parks:  I would like to know why as you called it massaging not perverting of justice.
@Jho Harris: ” Fraud ” is another word that springs to mind…
@Paddy Ryan: long before it hits the politicians Fitzgerald will throw the commissioner under the bus.And Enda will throw Fitzgerald under bus too if it gives him a few more weeks in power.I think Fitzgerald should be sacked now.   The commissioner also needs to go as public trust is gone but the next commissioner needs to be strong enough to keep the Garda from being a political foot ball.
ff fg are hoping it will blow over this should not be aloud to be left blow over the media should be calling for her sacking the irish media are way to soft on this issue Sullivan has got to step aside or be sacked
Sinn Fein – they don’t recognise bunreacht na hEireann. They don’t recognise An Garda Siochana or Oglaigh ma hEireann as the legitimate security forces of the state and they have the temerity to do be outraged, as fake as it is.
@Alan Brogan: Yes yes, because with the myriad of policing scandals, million fake breath tests, underreporting of crime stats, character assination of whistleblowers,  17 seperate investigations into issues with the Gardai proper, a commissioner who would have been sacked in any other first world country,evidence of endemic corruption and collusion, penalty points controversys, a collapse in public confidence in the force, stonewalling etc….Its important not to forget that the problem is sinn feinLOL!!
Alan Brogan. What a load of nonsense.
@The Risen: good man jamming, first to defend the party with its own private army. You’re as predictable as Mary Lou’s pretend outrage.
@Alan Brogan: Nope, just first to laugh at your usual ‘noun-verb-sinn fein’ guff.
@Alan Brogan: Mary boyle CASE NEEDS TO BE REOPENED again the guards are corrupt so her case should be reinvestigated.
@ray.farrelly: poor Alan you are shown up to be a Kenny brownoser
@Alan Brogan: Alan “One Track Record” Brogan
@Alan Brogan: Do you really recognise an Gardaí? They are a fake organisation and do not represent me because they are corrupt and a private army for neo liberalism and to them we are all SCROTES and to us,  we can never be believe or respect them, because respect needs to be earned and they have failed that test through lies and deceit.
I’m scratching my head as to why these incompetent politicians are still in gov!
@Adrian: Because the Irish electorate are experts at bending over and taking it up the woozah.
@Adrian:  Nothing worse than people generalising,  I am a member of the electorate and I don’t bend over but the choice is not enticing when all is said and done,  too often crooked politicians lining up beside misguided and powerless, greedy and clueless and you cannot expect much!
This is Ireland; this is how we do or don’t do things here.Low standards are acceptable in high places.Politics, policing, banking and religion means never having to be really sorry.
It was cringe worthy to listen to Daly peddle the anti-vaccine nonsense.
@Old Gordon:  I don’t think this is garden variety ‘vaccines made my child autistic’ nonsense, apparently the UK gov and European Medicines Agency have conceded some link between the Pandemrix vaccine and cases of narcolepsy. I haven’t read anything about the science, but there seems to be something to it.
@Old Gordon:  No it was not
Failures like Ahearn, the drunk Cowen, Martin, nice boy Leo, the zombie called Noonan, Kenny and now Sullivan the worst commissioner in the history of the state, in their own way they let the country down, handed sovereignty to Merkel this surely must be the scrapings of the bottom of the barrel  ?
‘PEOPLE ARE LEFT SCRATCHING THEIR HEADS’ ON WHY GARDA COMMISSIONER STILL HAS JOB’Those folks must have dandruff.
Perhaps she knows too much about those who should dismiss her.
Who said the people want to know? I was never asked why she is still in the job so i bloody wish those tds would stop saying it.
Anyone else reckon enda has notions of himself still being taoiseach for the Papal visit?
Enda, who????
@The Risen: as long as its not the 267th pope!
@The Risen: What a bunch of spineless cowards they are in FG. Afraid to be seen as ‘pushing’ endless Enda who’s laughing at them (and us) all. He’s intent on hanging on until he gets his place in history as the longest serving FG Taoiseach.
@The Risen: He can’t wait to kiss the King fisher ring lol.
Covney , plank.
@Willy Malone: wow.
@Willy Malone: Coveney, defended the Garda boss and is a supporter of Water Charges. So it looks like Leo, is clear favourite and more suited to FG election chances.
@Willy Malone:Coveney has been groomed by Sutherland for the eventual take-over.98% of the people have no idea what’s going on…
@Charles Martel: correct… Only in the bubble of the Dublin media is varadker favourite. Stuffy top brass will never let it happen. Coveney a shoe in.
So its the summer now, then itll be christmas..Hes not going anywhere, he’ll be shaking hands with the pope.Sadly we’ll accept it.
Failed Health Minister Leo is no leader. Would you want him in the trenches with you in Vietnam? Enda is a liar. Simon Coveney is the minister for homelessness and housing crisis. Another failure. Simon Harris isn a failed health minister who wants out. So who is left? Not Francis Fitzgerald who made a show of herself over Norin and telling the truth. Regina Doherty (breaker of company law) should not be allowed near finances imo. So who is left?? Noonan is under investigation by 4 agencies. Knew about Grace for 20 years. No not good enough. So there is no one really. No leader without baggage.
@Garda Daz Topaz: And plenty in the party without a set.
IT DOSE NOT MATTER WHO IS THE LEADER OF FINE GALE WHEATHER IT BE LEO OR ANYONE ELSE..THEY HAVE FAILED THE PEOPLE AND THEY SHOULD BE PUNISHED FOR THEIR FAILURE
RTE are pushing this issue and its getting very annoying the idiot Kenny thinks he was given a mandate by the people to this term in office as leader. The Muppett will hang on forever because he cant take the hint that he’s not wanted by a vast majority of the electorate.
Chickens all of them…
All Fianna Fails doings
That Long.. Why wait…!!!
Corrupt politiciaal leader wants to hold on to meet corrupt religious leader.
@Les Behan: George Soros again lol.
Say a lot depends on new tds and how long it takes them to be able to claim a pension… why go before that. Delay and put off till that time comes. .then fold. It is Ireland after all
Its is a process the same as a snake shedding its skin
I think endas keeping them all guessing in his own party as well as holding the country to ransom . the country has a housing crisis and house prices are going up  no social housing been built at all . hospital waiting list are getting longer doesn’t matter who leader of finna gail all living in a bubble were everything just great .  no homeless criss. Nobody’s living in hotel rooms no children living in poverty. No policing  scandal s
Enda thinks he’s God an can’t be done without but there are better people can do the job without the lies
@Liz Greer: Agree with your statement, but I don’t think they will be found in FG.
Hail Coveney, the Bilderberg candidate.
The duel is between Leo and Simon. we may see a proper contest, “Could the two contenders please pickup there Ralph Lauren handbags fighting continues until someone breaks a nail”. There’s too little time to get Michael Lowry back into the blueshirt camp before Enda gets the boot, a true FG leader. Michael Martin will still hold power no matter which tool wins the race. Maybe Leo and Simon will form a perfect partnership like Bertie\Cowen or Kenny\Noonan one become Taoiseach while the other plays at being minister for finance. If Irish politics have taught them anything its easier to rob a nation when all rivalry is only for show. Each got the others back during all scandals and crisis’s. Because a new leader of Irish political party does not change how the game is played.
@leartius: noonan thinks he’ll live forever Enda thinks he’ll be leader for ever!!!
Media playing up varadker’s chances. They are over estimating how far we’ve come. I honestly can’t see top brass in a Christian conservative party like fine Gael allowing a gay man to lead them. I could be wrong but I’d say covney is a shoe in.
I’d hope they’d all be gone soon and we might get from somewhere, competent politicians who can do a job and we can be proud of.
And whatever time these politicians deem not a good time for an election is probably the best time to have an election.
More Yawn, Yawn,>>>>>
If FF pulled the plug we wouldn’t be having this conversation…..
Yawn, Yawn, Yawn>>>
Every one of them corrupt to the core, stop voting for muppets.
Public don’t care who is leader of fg,they will suffer in next GE.fg and FF will have less seats.
Enda…just go.
When is the budget? October? Yep, if Enda goes now then either Coveney or Varadkar will be Taoiseach for 6 months. This government will fall at the budget, no question, it’s the ideal time for FF to pull the plug.
Doesn’t say much for potential leaders that Enda considers them incapable off dealing with any policy matter. Strange that Enda is the best they have to offer… despite all his Sieg Heil  to Angela he couldn’t get a Gibraltar type arrangement for the north please FG let him go!!!!
The Devil you know is better than the one you don’t know
Which summer does he mean?
He’ll go once the journal cops on and brings back the red thumbs
Same shit – different leader.
@Tommy_Bannon: Like Dr. Who, different face same lines lol.
Or lies lol.
Well it is we the citizens exercise the franchise. The political parties provide the choices. We get what we voted for, no more, no less.
I wish he’d long before now. He’s brazen and misguided in thinking we’re in a better position the longer he stays. People lost confidence in him some time ago.
The sitting Taoiseach of the day should have prime responsibility for Brexit, the single greatest challenge this state has faced for decades.
@Were Jammin: Your wrong there mate, the British prime minister is responsible for Brexit. The taoisech is just a puppet of the EU parliament.
@Chris Kirk:  I wish he were a puppet for the EU. Then the developers and bankers would face criminal charges, no VRT, garda comissioner would be in courts now facing many charges, apple would have paid 13 billion in tax and Irish Water would not have been a complete f*ck up. Our politicians are as corrupt as they get. EU is the only thing still working and keeping our economy afloat.
He should have resigned when he spun his 3 different yarns on Dail record about the same event. Any first world prime minister would have had to.
@The Risen: When it comes to politics, Ireland is anything but first world. “What’s in it for me”?
Funny how shinner bots only care when other leaders “spin yarn”, but their own leader gets a free pass….
Guys, please ignore the fake ‘were jammin’ profile that was set up to troll during the week. The genuine one is as follows….https://twitter.com/JambonJohn
@Were Jammin: and funny how you set this account up just to defend the poison blue shirts and spout your nonsense. Anything to have a go at Sinn Fein, you must be scared they might gain popularity due to the inability of the current government to actually govern. Health services, homelessness, I could go on and on.
@Gerard McConnell: Unfortunately, this article is being trolled. The ‘were jammin’ account you’ve been responding to is a fake. the genuine one is @https://twitter.com/JambonJohn. It was set up in 2012.Please ignore the other one which has been set up to misrepresent my views.ThanksWJ
People seem to think in Brexit we will .have direct negotiations with the UK …It will be the EU that negotiate with Britain….Final deal will be decided by qualified majority voting in the EU….If Britain rejects this deal no 2nd round of negotiations….Big issue is will the EU allow Britain to stay in the single market vital for us…
@John003: the question is if the UK wants to be part of the single market.
The British position seems to be they want to be part of single market but not part of the common travel area…Also they don’t want to pay the €57 billion in reparations EU says they owe….
Enda is a buffoon and serious journalists give him credence for  non existent talent.Good script writers have given him a few moments in the sun and it’s time for the sun to set on his political existence
Enda stepping aside is not the issue, the north is!! and a hard border will destablise the current situation no matter how you look at it. This is bad for north and south who have enjoyed peace under the GFA. Down sought it will be the EU and up north it wont so to my mind a hard border will have to be established. Very uncertain times lay ahead so much for contingently plans on Brexit by our Government.
@Elizabeth Hourihane: excep there wont be a hard border, every rational person knows it.
@Paul: Unfortunately this is not in the hands of rational people, it is in the hands of politicians.
Kenny it is your time to move on to the very very back benches
I don’t think anybody is falling for his “I’m the big man in the EU” bull.
It’s amusing to see our esteemed journalists getting more and more frustrated at Enda’s tenacity. The media push of a few weeks ago seems to have dissipated so I suppose another media campaign must be on the cards soon. Enda has huge credibility in international circles as the leader who has steered Ireland on a very tough course over the past years. I think Simon and Leo have a few more tricks to learn before they take the top job.
@Desmodromic:Leader?..given the damage FF/Greens inflicted..with Kenny on the opposition bench looking for even more spending..roland rat would have won the election..look at how the Irish people voted in 2016 for a real appreciation of bellenda..
@Desmodromic: “Enda’s tenacity.”LOL!!Tenacity – When you can’t take a hint.
@Desmodromic: Tenacity? He lost a fight with a plant pot!
@Desmodromic: ” Enda has huge credibility in international circles” Seriously you really believe that? The man who followed FF agreed plan with the troika with out any question has credibility?
Funny how Shinners weren’t at all pleased this week when Bill Clinton praised Kenny.Just a shame their own leader hasn’t jumped off Trump’s lap yet…
@Were Jammin: Show us where he praised Kenny.
@Were Jammin: Again I ask you to show us where Bill Clinton praised Kenny, you have’nt because he did’nt. Bill Clinton was involved in the good friday talks. Kenny had no input into those talks. But in troll school you just make things up and when challenged on the truth, you just avoid it. A bit like your leader Enda.
@Just Me: Unfortunately, this article is being trolled. The ‘were jammin’ account you’ve been responding to is a fake. the genuine one is @https://twitter.com/JambonJohn. It was set up in 2012.Please ignore the other one which has been set up to misrepresent my views.ThanksWJ
Garda corruption nama apple homeless crisis housing crisis children buried in septic tanks massive 200 billion debt hse crisis Ireland is a sleep Kenny should be gone long ago I blame our msm they are deplorable holding none of the above to account.the Irish are deluded if they think ff are going to fix all of the problems above the very problems that ff created.ireland is on its knees because of corruption and nobody cares the future of our country is not lucking so good.the establishment has to go.
This manRepresents the rich and eliteAnd big businessNot the people of IrelandHe like those in the EU was not elected by the peopleThe commission in the EU are the most corrupt in the worldThat’s why they are all members of the secretive BilderbugDisgraceful
FFS we’re paying incompetent people to run Health Guards Nama ect what difference would one more spoofer make #pension roundabout
Kenny will only do damage the longer he remains as Taoiseach or leader his party. He’s never fought for Ireland; he’s a spoofer with a penchant for fantasy & simply incompetent. The sooner he’s gone the better for everyone. He can toddle along to Europe & cash in on his support for Merkel & Co who he has represented with aplomb.
Kenny can’t be trusted to negotiate for Ireland on Brexit, considering his yes man attitude with the EU. As for the north of Ireland it’s all soundbites, he dose’nt give two fu#ks about the north or its people, coward that he is.
Best Taoiseach since Garret Fitzgerald
@IRISH OPINION: Child poverty doubled, record numbers on trolleys, record numbers of homeless, 40 years worth of dodgy prom note debt turned into debt for our kids and grandkids to clear.Best for the haves and have mores maybe, but for the masses and our society as a whole, a disaster.
Blaming a politician for suicides is disgusting and an insult to the victims of suicide and their families.
@Were Jammin: What a load of crap. So politicians have no effect on people’s lives? Or, perhaps, only the good in people’s lives they can take credit for? Certainly anything bad has nothing to do with the one’s who have the power to create laws, spend public funds and slash them where they see fit.
@Were Jammin: But true his policies Were his policies.
@Kerry Blake: By the way thejournal poor form deleting a factual comment….
@Kerry Blake: Hi Kerry. Unfortunately, this article is being trolled. The ‘were jammin’ account you’ve been responding to is a fake. the genuine one is @https://twitter.com/JambonJohn. It was set up in 2012.Please ignore the other one which has been set up to misrepresent my views.ThanksWJ
He has nothing but contempt for the people any other western country hes be gone. We have more in common with the Azerbaijans and Kazakhstans of this world
Enda is a liar,on top of everything else,and should go now.
Look st USA. They could not wait to get rid of Obama and look what happened! They are now landed with a President that is a total disaster for them and the wider world economy. He has the lowest level of popularity in the first early stage of taken office in the history of the US.Now it is suggested that Enda should go. Hopefully we are not in for a shock with his replacement. Maybe the divil you know etc……..
@Irish big fellow: The difference being Obama had done his 2 terms so it was’nt an option for him to stay on.
Theresa May has done a deal with Enda on the CTA.He should stay to make sure it happens.
Doesn’t matter who’s in there , ye would still think they are useless.
@IRISH OPINION: Because to climb the ladder to get to the top jobs you have to be a butt kissing back stabbing git.
Windswept Dail I hope?
Mrs May, Are you trying to seduce me or is that Ms Merkel or Mrs Robinson, the one in the film not the one that was married to Peter lol.
Should have been gone last election
Not for the government to interfere? That’s the best washing-of-the-hands I have heard in a good while.
@Suzanne Dorgan: Did he not fire the previous Commissioner ?
@Suzanne Dorgan: it’s the same cheap tactic their using on the debt ridden state companies.
@Tony Hartigan:It’s an absolute disgrace and there is not the will to clear up the worsening mess.And FF are propping up this government and t’s not fit for purpose agencies.God help Ireland
@Suzanne Dorgan: 14k plus wrongful convictions and it’s not for the government to interfere?!?  So basically we’ve a police force operating outside the law with absolutely no oversight?  Well that’s not worrying in the slightest…
@Suzanne Dorgan:So the Gadrai are above reproach by government the government are above the people, the very definition of a fascist state.
@Suzanne Dorgan: the constitution forbids the government from directly inferring and rightly so!
@Paul: Paul, the government can ‘interfere’ in the sense that the cabinet can remove the commissioner, sending a clear message in the process to the next one. And they can keep repeating that process until they get someone who can make the changes necessary.
Probably the only time o Sullivan admitted anything.‘It is inevitable we will identify more examples of bad practice’: Garda Commissioner.    Sure with you in charge , there will be many ….
How Do we know if we have a wrongful conviction for alleged traffic offence
@Suzanne Dorgan: The Gardai are doing an  excellent job, under the commissioner, The country is a safer place with Noírín around.
Noirin will be working hard discrediting the whistle blowers rather than doing proper police work.
@Eddie Byrne:she’s a female “Walter Mitty”
She should be sacked .He had no problem sacking the last one.As soon as someone from outside this state takes over the Gardai the better for all of us..Confidence my foot.
Amazing how all these revelations come to light as soon as our country decides to increase the pay of the gardai… Any changes they got should be retracted in light of all this information! I mean no disrespect to the day to day garda who are as clueless as the general public in terms of what do be going on! But for every cent more the hard working garda earns these deceitful and corrupt individuals are also earning more!
@Pat Frost:Who do you suggest pat?The British government maybe?I thought we fought for freedom 100 years ago and you are suggesting we just hand the running of our police force to someone else? No thanks pat, I think I would prefer if we just sorted the mess out amongst ourselves.
@Pat Frost: So it will be the same as NCT,  Toll gates,  The HSE and more,  are you suggesting that there is nobody trustworthy or competent in this country to to an honest and good job?  Noirin should be fired NOW if she thinks after these revelations that there is more crooked activities bound to be uncovered.  She must have learned so much watching politicians and bank officials.
@Alan Cooke: the British government cant be a Commissioner , you got a chip on your shoulder with a comment like that.Yes the next commissioner could come from any UK force,  might be better if they did as we cant seem to sort outour  own mess, picking useless baggage ridden senior officers from HQ
@Alan Cooke: as per any other organisation seeking the best fit for the job means you have to look at all possibilities. The only other person with the experience of running a police force was sacked so we can get someone inexperienced from Ireland or get someone experienced from abroad.
@Gus Sheridan: would anyone worth their salt from UK take it on since it’s so resistant to change?
Kenny is fast becoming the champion of avoiding all questions directed at him at all costs over all his scandals and unacceptabele behaviour yet he’s first in line criticising other people calling for them to answer up. Talk about a two faced gombeen of a taoiseach.
@Adrian: He became a lot of that a long time ago.
And that’s as far as it will go. Time to lurch on to the next debacle.
Kenny just saying something for the sake of it. Meanwhile he still has full confidence in Noirin.
Kenny seems to want to throw away FG chance in next election rather than take action and fire a few senior Gardai and the do nothing minister for justice……Hope his backbenchers have noticed this people will fire them….
@Just Me:  Kenny is right to have full confidence in her.
Of course it’s not acceptable. Garda management has been poor over the years. Problem is arse liking to get ahead. Figures inflated or ignored. Best practice put aside for the cheap fix to stay in budget and get promoted. Like church and state had to be separated. Promotion process needs to be separated from garda management.
I’m all for a secular Ireland but it’s a push to blame the church here!
@john Appleseed: which is why he didn’t blame the church and clearly and merely made a comparison
They knew about this for weeks or more. They held it back to bury it on the day the busses went on strike. Worked too. Didn’t hear many if any radio stations cover this yesterday.
One of Kenny’s constituents lost his license over this. Judge said that he was a perjurer and he should go to jail!!Turns out he was telling the truth.
@Paul Kelly: That is appalling
I wonder should she be expecting a late night caller shortly ?????
Yet again another scandal, but the government has full confidence in the woman at the helm of it! You couldn’t make it all up if you tried
O’ Sullivan has to go.Its one inept performance after another. Where will it stop. Criminals all over the country are laughing at poor our police service has become. It seems under Kenny it doesn’t matter how poor you are at your job you won’t be fired. The sooner the better that clown Kenny is gone & we get someone who is capable at their job in to run the country
I can’t understand how the gardai used x number of breathalyser  but surely they would have to order them from a supply unit  so how come it was not copped on if there is any records kept of supplies  Does this comment make sense?
It’s like episode of The Wire – You juke the stats, and Majors become Colonels etc etc…
How can the Public have any confidence in the Gardai? It needs root and ranch reform.
@Peter: root and ranch I like it
Garda Nóirín O’Sullivan and her workmates knew THREE years ago about the drink driving breath tests – and since then there appears to have been an imposed veil of silence.Add to the incorrect number of tests – a number lied about – it now also appears that lies were also told in regard to number of actual check points. More is apparently going to emerge in the next few days and weeks ahead of this latest state scandal.Since Fine Gael has taken the rein of power, this now has become their 30th major crisis or scandal they have found to be thrown into. Because they wish to not lose another top garda – because that would look bad for them – they crazy continue to express confidence in others that are apparently as questionable as themselves in elected office!The Tánaiste says that she has full confidence in the Commissioner. The fact that any elected continues to say this, exposes their complete inability to comprehend multiple present day situations, inability to recognise clear huge wrongs, and not able to recognise that there should be major change at the top!If elected continue to prop up either Walter Mitty characters or others that are maintaining a veil of silence regarding lies and deliberate reported lies at that, then NONE of them deserve to be in office of any description.1. Fianna Fail MUST stop propping up a failed government that has liars still in elected office.2. Fianna Fail must stop thinking of themselves first by continuing this government simply because they are trying to get as much money as possible (to pay outstanding party debts) while still elected during this Dail term.3. Fianna Fail must stop propping up the greatest bunch of liars and traitors possibly since the foundation of the Irish state.NOT TO DO THE THREE ABOVE WILL EXPOSE FIANNA FAIL TRULY IN THE SAME LIGHT AS THOSE THAT TODAY HOLD THE REIN OF POWER.There’s NO point in calling for Fine Gael to go. Like their Walter Mitty character, they too are unwilling to do what is right – but instead, hang on more for dear life. “Dear” as in expensive regarding pay, perks and pensions…Anyone that expresses further confidence in this government, its ministers or those that now have been many times exposed as seriously open to question – the people of Ireland CANNOT have any confidence in, whatsoever!The present government is a sick farce being propped up by self-interest, biased media, lies, many secrets, scandal after crisis and the corrupt. Our present day government must come to an end. Those expressing confidence in others – a growing public cannot have any confidence in them!
@Unitedpeople: Please tell me you cut & paste all that……?!?!?!? If not, I think you need to take up a past time….. Maybe go for a walk or something!!!
According to Kenny it’s not for the government to interfere in the running of the gardai. What a weak leader he is, if this was any other country the head of the police force would be on the carpet to give answers to the satisfacion of it’s citizens.
So who are they accountable to if not the government
The arrogance of this Lady is beyond breathtaking. Is Ireland the only country where  civic leaders can’t smell or spell RESIGNATION and ACCOUNTABILITY
@Tim Brennan: They are all teachers,what do you expect
“Stop or I’ll stay stop again” whispered Claudius from behind the curtain.
Think of all who lost there job drink driving charges. I think there is going to be a lot of people suing the state.
@Declan Carr: At the rate this country is going there will be know one left to sue.
Been in a good  few EU countries, working – but never heard of a Police force doing this type of DUI statistics fiddle. ANYWHERE else….
This is not acceptable to us, the Irish People ! It doesn’t matter what the ..soon to be ex Taoiseach ..thinks. You have to act like the French People! They do not put up with standstill or inaction on matters they do not accept. We have proven twice that we , the people, can stop something that is wrong, the water  charges and the medical cards for the older population. If we accept the standards that are now being disclosed belatedly and reluctantly of An Garda Siochana  , at any level where there is dereliction of duty, then we, the People, are a disgrace to ourselves. It is OUR Country. We must ensure it is run honestly and diligently on our behalf. No one has a place in the management of our precious country who does not have our interest at heart.
With all the revelations of late,  how could anyone have confidence in her,  there is no other explanation for this confidence still been displayed only that their afraid if she goes ,  she will take them with her.
Lads you haven’t seen nor heard nothing yet  this whole thing will cost millions like the water meters no one goes to jail ? But an old age penchenor has no TV licence 6 months  I’m descusded with this Country its time to pack up
The problem is that government “policy” relating to justice / law and order are largely informed by”data”. Provided by the nGardai.I am reminded of an old but true axiom used by “systems” people.  GIGO,  pronounced ‘gigo’.  It simply stands for Garbage in – Garbage out.
Time now for Fianna Fail to step up now and put a stop to this fiasco of a government.
@Pat Frost: they themselves are part of the problem. :-(
The public have no confidence in commissioner,they live in fear.Enda sacked last commissioner but things have got worse.
@@mdmak33: The feminist community fully support the commissioner, and plead that she doesn’t resign.
Any guard who add wrong information to pluse knowing should be charged, discharged and arrested
The Commissioner is a joke. She has dragged the good name of the Gardai into the dirt with her mismanagement and instinct to cover up scandals like the whistleblowers instead of doing her job. Kenny says he has confidence in her, my advice to her is get those black bin bags out asap!
Can anybody say just what level of corruption must be reached within the Garda Force before some Minister would cry halt. The line up of the Taoiseach and other Ministers to express confidence in Garda Management is unseemly , particularly in the light of so many corrupt practices which have come to light in the recent past. Is there anybody running the country or is it a case of allowing  anarchy to run riot ?
the contempt the kenny and co, Garda, HSE, Transport, Dublin City Council, is unreal we the people are to paying our taxes, be robbed with various levies and charges and to shout up and not complain when you need help. we have a garda commissioner who should be sacked along with her senior officers, but no this will never happen, this country is the biggest banana republic in the world! we protested over water while corruption goes on all over the country..
Go and take The Minister of Justice with you
With each passing day we see the citadels of our society collapsing under the strain of incompetence, corruption, ineptitude, cronyism, cute hoorism and self aggrandisement. Those in positions of authority abuse our trust and cynically shrug their shoulders when found out. It is ironic that this comes out on the 60 anniversary of the Treaty of Rome as Brexit sets a fault line through the community. We surely are witnessing the equivalent of the collapse of the Roman Empire. Due entirely to corruption, avarice, nepotism, low morals and complete absence of principled leadership with moral authority. Give us our #GE2017 now before the whole rotten edifice collapses!
I got wrongfully accused. Where can I sue the Gardai?
wrongful court summonses were “not acceptable”+I continue to have confidence in her.+“not for the government” to interfere in the running of the gardaí=**** off Kenny you weak wristed midget parasite, a cabbage would better lead this country. Kenny must go, today, and he can take FF and NOS with him. Disgrace.
Strange thinking rationally about it, we all should have copped the high numbers of detection yet the garda force was at its lowest in terms of numbers. Makes you wonder who complied the figures, I doubt it was the Bobby on the beat” !
Not acceptable but I shall do f**k all about it he what he meant.
Yep not acceptable he says. But not a government matter. And….. that makes the daily news
Arrogance is unbelievable
The sleeveen must be the only leader who doesn’t actually lead,he needs to go asap for his blatant ignorance of nama and Top level Garda incompetence and corruption,he’d make a fine ostrich when we get him out of our Dail.
Ah.I couldn’t be arssed even reading about Garda incompetance any more.
When did he wake up ?
Statement is nonsense they knew for yrs this was happening and only for it was exposed nothing would be done.who got promotions from these figures must be investigated.gda force has now 0 credibility.
As far as the individuals involved in this issue goes, they seem to each have confidence in the other but do little more than identify the problem in the terms we already know. We already know it’s “appalling” and we didn’t need to consult our public relations team to quantify that before we decided. We already know it’s a matter of “ethics, supervision, measurement and, “most of all, it’s about trust” but we require resolution not definition. The confidence these people have in each other appears to be required because the rest of us have little if any confidence in them and that needs to change.
We have commissioners, chief superintendents, superintendents , inspectors,sergeants and all manner of people whose supposed role it is to enforce discipline within the Garda Force. If as seems to be the case that that have not been doing their job, why should they not be immediately replaced by competent personnel as would happen in any private organisation , that at the interests of the organisation at heart. It is simply not good enough for the Minister for Justice to preside over such a debacle and even claim confidence  in such ineptitude and corruption . If such latitude is allowed the Garda force in the matters we know about, think of the freedom that the Garda force have to indulge in any other kind of mischievous  activity
Nothing less than her head will I accept as I am of the mind that corruption and malpractice should be routed out.
At least with the keystone cops you could have a laugh.This is no joke this is our police force sadly.
@Alan Cooke: Yes, damn right! When the national policy and the legal enforcement for the country has shown itself to be bent and twisted beyond belief and let the people it serves down to such a degree in a way which suggests a culture of corruption, then absolutley bring in a force which is admired across the world as one of the best at monitoring its own activity and being open to scrutiny, let go of the past, this is not a sovereignty issue, it is an issue of trust, if not the UK then elsewhere but let’s have no more internal coverups and whitewashing. If the last ten years of revelations about politics, religion and law enforcement in this country have taught us nothing else, we need a serious wake up call and a complete overhaul of all these institutions until they are all fully accountable and responsible! They should answer to us the public, not the other way around! They need to earn our respect not command it.
Did she uncover it?
Your one of them love…..
One million =two hundred thousand per year= 3846 per week = 547 per dayHow much man hours were fiddled?how muchMoney taken from the public?What were these cops doing when they were not breathalysing these 547 people per day.The man power lost processing this amount of lying beggars belief.Try getting a cop when your in trouble and there all busy
White collar crime? If their motive is to gain promotions and a pay rise.  It is a premeditated act to distort stats.  Probably no better than the bankers or TD creative expenses but its ok as everyone else is doing it? – cultural norm.
What a load of absolute boll#x, management speak bullsh#t at its best
Jez just go she’s just like Enda they both think they are above reproach
Big difference between “bad Practice” and corruption
It will look very bad if he sacks 2 commissioner’s
@Thomas Linehan: it will look far worse if he doesn’t
Nos clearing the way for more corruption to be highlighted and Kenny backing her up why the hell is he not sacking her for gross incompetence she is a disgrace.
Same old same old story why can’t the police be like other police officers in other country honest reliable and do their job in a honest way sick of all this some great officers being labelled just because of a few rotten apples.
It’s a good thing isint it that we find out the truth and rectify it so it never happens again.It can be a great police force.
she more or less just told everyone to fook off and mind their own business, Plus there is more disasters to come, the young guards on the ground should be up in arms about this but there not, and why? FEAR,
How Do We Know if we were one of the bogus road traffic offences ?
When will this idiot go. She has to resign and so should Fitzgerald.  This is becoming a joke.
Will some please SACK that corrupted B**** Already , FFS
She is worse than useless
It’s obvious she is being used to take the stick and will depart when she’s served her purpose. I’m hoping they take a wee look into deaths in custody
Surely there is a certain number of these breath tests bought. Therefore is there no record of how many go to each station so they don’t run out of them Who does the ordering  checking. If you were in a hospital and on the ward you have to order your supplies each week and the store officials would know if things were wrong.
if i happen to see a  crime beign  carried out i will not report it . its a total waste of time
Politicians and football clubs do this a week or so before they sack them, it is time she went anyway…
I stand with Noirin, the best garda commissioner we ever had. The peope here on the comments are just jealous of her achievements. typical patriarchy supporters.
@A Random Guy: Your right, I am so very jealous of every scandal she was the focus of in the press?
Everyone going agains’t Noírín are sexist.
Is the Commissioner expecting other examples of strange practices by An Gardai  to come to light, when she use the word’ inevitable ‘?Also, were the current senior officers in post throughout the years of mismanagement ? If so, they should be sacked.
It is nothing short of a “shambles”! The minister of transport does not see it as “his responsibility to get the national transport carrier back on the road…Enda and his Justice Minister do not see it as “their responsibility” to face up to an inept and ill judge political appointment of this Garda Commissioner …..as evidenced by recent revelations…if not before.The health service is a total shambles…the number of indigenous homeless is steadily growing. Enda spouts a well written speech for him..in the White House….St Patrick..patron of immigrants…where is his own policy on the naturalisation of immigrants in Ireland….the shameful housing of the ever growing number of homeless And debt ridden Irish people( a consequence of his lick ass and weak policies..sucking up to the EU.Leo…now sitting on the fence re Garda Commissioner….nothing from Simon Coveney?Exactly who has any responsibility for what…in this current government ?.Are these two guys Leo and Simon…the best hope that there is for Irish political leadership…and potential future taoisigh?..I very much doubt it…two guys sitting on the political fence…both jockeying for position…neither showing the conviction.leadership skills or balls nor willing to take an unswerving position on the highest ethical standards…in case they make a “false move”. c’mon Ireland….We deserve and can deliver and deserve ..so much better…than this shower of self adulating weaklings!!
Kenny is definitely an EU follower, does whatever the EU people tell him to do, in the best interests of the EU, to the detriment of the Irish people. I’d say he wouldn’t know what to do if he was an actual active leader and had to make the important decisions himself. He’s a “do what they tell me and keep up the fake appearances” leader.
@Adrian: How can my lovely horse Enda sign anything on our behalf without a referendum by us???
@Alois Irlmaier: us doesn’t come into it.  When it came to any decision with banks bond holders and transferring the debt to the public we got zero say.Ends and FG don’t care about Irish people its only what Merkel wants that matters.EU is a poisoned chalice that we are addicted to. If the EU was in the interest of all member states then they would want in and not need to be locked in.
@tom: All lies are covered under the Maastricht or Lisbon treaties I believe but the Maastricht states banks can’t be bailed out whoops???
@tom: “John Perkins, Former Advisor IMF.“My job was to identify countries with resources that corporations covert, like oil and then arrange a huge loan to that country from the World Bank or from one of its sister organisations. The money however would not go to the country, it would go to our own corporations who would make huge profits, but the majority of the people would suffer terrible as a result, because money would be diverted from Education, Healthcare and other Social Services to pay interest on the debt.”What happened when the IMF moved in and the debt couldn’t be repaid?“We go back into that country and say, since you can’t pay your debt, sell your resource oil or whatever real cheap to our corporations without any environmental restrictions or, or social regulations. Privatise, sell your electric utilities, your water, sewage systems, your schools, your jails, all your public sector businesses to our corporations, and in the few cases where we failed economic hitman, the jackals went in and still do and aah, they either assassinate the leaders of the country or overthrow them in coups.”United States of Banks?
I’m all for Europe, and the European Union, but let’s do it by celebrating our diversity as well. There is no need or want by any majority of the populace to have each countries uniqueness, sovereignty, and culture subsumed into one monolithic European system. The more power seems to ebb towards Brussels, the more backlash there will be.
@The Throwaway: we have to leave this organisation before it starts collapsing around us.
@The Throwaway: agreed. They should ask the citizens of Europe how they see the future of the EU before group thinking the whole project over a federalist cliff most don’t want
@The Throwaway: So you want a POLITICAL UNION then as that is what is promised? The end of democracy and the banks will take over from governments?https://www.rt.com/shows/sophieco/320457-eu-currency-economy-crises/
I’m all for the “European Economic Community” but not in favour of a European union.
@Kerry Blake: The WTO forced this single market behemoth in order for banks to take control, if there was no WTO then there would be a global single market them without conditions or trading blocks?
30 scandals and crises since Fine Gael came to power. The next one up, the Garda veil of silence on lying about tests and checkpoints – and sick Fianna Fail continues to prop them up. Sheer madness.Aaa.. but everything will be ok. Fine Gael will no doubt announce another tribunal or inquiry – then give more of our rights and personal data to more Eu private companies. Go Enda!
@Unitedpeople: Fine Gael are best of a bad lot. The rest are populists caving in to any and all demands fron the Public Sector Unions.
@Unitedpeople: What other option?
They are trying to impose a united states of europe, that should be resisted. But the weasel Kenny and his like in FF, Labour will go along with it. Less control  over our country rather than more is for the better.
Federalists still wield considerable influence in EU politics, but it is waning. It already was before the Brexit vote, and even more so afterwards. That’s one of the few good things about the outcome of the referendum in my opinion.
How about taking a step back and just getting on with cooperating like a normal treaty organization. I feel things started heading in the wrong direction for people, whether merely perceptually or factually, when the EU began to advertise itself as the greatest thing in the world.
@Mick Tobin: looking more like the Mafia every day.
Any chance of giving Enda that cushy EU job now as reward for his Merkel adulation? Please please you can have him, he is past his sell by date in Ireland years ago.
@Gus Sheridan: His new job is to warm Hogans bed lol.
These clowns can sign whatever they like the EU is dying fast. Nothing is happening in it and with America getting tough and the rest of the world having real growth the EU will fall apart as other countries see that Britain did the right thing.
Multi speed EU should be enough for the people to rise up and bring the EU down.
@@mdmak33: It won’t see past another 10 years because it is corrupt and rootten to the core and will eventually die. I would give it just under 10 years more?
EU unity ? Yes, unity of “over regulation” and costly over paid arrogant commissioners on the EU gravy train while we foot the unnecessary bill. Enda loves that stuff and intends boarding the gravy train. He is an EU yes-man. The British are right. Time to derail the lot !
The EU needs to focus more on economic matters. Deepen the single market and put in place structures to make the euro work better (limiting countries ability to borrow to pay public sector wages and pensions would be a very good idea).If it just stays on that focus it will be fine. It needs to forget about further political, fiscal or military union and instead simply allow co-operation in those areas.
The threats to Western Christian/neeChristian civilisation from Eastern belligerents remain though they have changed. Europe is militarily with a Britain that sees things as they really are heading.
The Eu can be great but it very pro big business and makeing a few rich. While we pay the price.They need to call it what it is Brussels is the head of power, stop the illusion that we vote for a government, that our taxes is not for our country but for Europe,  that movement of people and goods is for all. Things like vrt are scrapped they pay a find, we bring a few bottles back we get locked up.That our culture is been slowly eroded and customs we were us use is been changed to form a new culture and customs of one European people.That our governments make us is changed there more manager’s to head of Europe that people in control of our country.That eventually we be one county Europe,  our country will no longer be a country but a county or state within Europe.That we the people of now and probably our children will have to sacrifice the most and deal with the headache for us to become one European country.So the people of the future will know as Ireland,  France,  Spain, Germany etc… as former countries of the eu which then be known as either United States of Europe, the European state, the European federation, and Federal Europe.We should ask do we want this, and if have doubts use the brixt to address theses.
For the rich and elite onlyDisgraceful EUUnelected con men
@Jonathan Yeo: Which EU member wasn’t elected?
Enda did you get my permission to sign anything
@Anastasia: he didnt get mine , thats for sure.
Enda busy brown nosing again. For the record Enda not everyone in this country is pro E like you & its the people of this country that will decide whether we remain or go
He does not represent the whole of Ireland in fact he lost the electionHe is only in by a dodgy deal with FFSome of us do not want to be in the corrupt EU which is for the rich and elite only!
Do any of you remember what Ireland was like before we joined the EU? massive unemployment,  and as a teenager in the 70′s in Dublin, there was nothing to do, it was bleak and depressing.  The Catholic Church ruled every aspect of our lives.  I could go on but I believe being part of the EU has liberated us both in thought and actions and is a force for good, albeit imperfect.
@Laura Clarke: Thanks Laura. My sentiments exactly. Ireland is too small to go it alone.
@Simon Peters: Iceland seems to be doing ok?
@Laura Clarke: while I agree that Ireland has come a long way in both attitudes and that the grip of the Catholic Church on every aspect of Irish life has been broken, most of this has more to do with the fact that the light was shone on years of institutionall child abuse and that fact that the church was more concerned with itself and it’s position than the victims of its members.The main problem with the EU is that while the initial idea of the common market, trade, peace and cooperation was sound and a worthwhile exercise, the incremental evolution of that into the EU by way of various amendments, some of which we had no say in, and others which went to referendum in which we were told we either had no other option but to support or the sky would fall, or we got asked the same question again in another referendum, when we apparently got the answer wrong because we were too dumb to understand the question.Now everyone that questions the EU is immediately classified as a right wing nut job and or an idiot, when that is simply not the case.The level to which the EU has increased its power and removed sovereignty and control from member nations with little or no protest,  is frankly frightening and I dread to think what it will become and how nember nations will lose not only their identities, but any illusion of control in another 20 years, nevermind another 60 years.
The English still can’t come to terms with their lack of exceptionalism.
An Y would she be there , ?????
Love or hate the Clintons…but it has to be noted we do like him deep down…He always has our best interests at heart and we probably have adopted him as one of our own…he and his family are always welcome to our Irish Shores…in my books anyways..enjoy your stay Mr. President…enjoy your few days…come back soon!!!
@David O Connor: His dubious morals aside, Clinton was one of the better presidents in recent years. He presided over a period of low unemployment and high economic growth and managed to keep the US out of any wars during his presidency (Bush sure made up for that!) His work on the peace process in NI is also commendable.
@Colonel Buckshot: totally agreed…a good Man done good!
@David O Connor: He s a good man. Pitty he is a sex pest. But hey if you have money and power that’s OK!
@David O Connor: Bill…good bars in Waterford…next time your home!!
@Colonel Buckshot: nah he did get the USA pretty heavily involved in Bosnia. But I love the man too. He should be made ambassador to Ireland and him and Hillary can wander around the Phoenix park til their hearts content.
@David O Connor: Castles on the hill…country lanes….Bill we have it it all in Waterford….and an airport specification for a Gulfstream G650.  Welcome home…I bring ya to the Uluru!!!!
Poor Shinners won’t enjoy sharing the limelight with Kenny…
@David O Connor: I wonder how different he would be if only he had inhaled the weed, just even the once.
It’s only because he has money in power that you about the sex bit.  How many sex pests are there you’ll never hear about because they’ve nobodies
@Were Jammin: why ?
Lunched with Denis ‘Brien and met Enda Kenny.
Both conmen that would love ttip to happen for the big corporations
You do realise that TTIP would be a phenomenal deal for the economy of this country?Just sayin….
@Were Jammin: lay off the gargle monkey man
Saw Bill Clinton shopping at Kilkenny Shop in Nassau Street early this afternoon with the Gardai entourage outside the shop. It briefly held up the traffic there.
@John Flanagan: Good story bro …
He likes his All-Ireland medals, that lad…
He folds his arms to make himself feel big also when he knows the camera is on him.
@Declan Carr: how observant of you what do you do to try and feel big
No folding his arms suggests he is on some sort of defensive mood (although non aggressive) because of his smile! Ah ye can read Enda like a book , its all there in the body language!
I’m not sure about you Margaret but personally beating up a child or someone child sized generally works for me. Or candy from a baby depends on the circumstances really and the depth of the need at the time.
@Declan Carr: He’s folding his arms to hide the stain on his suit. That won’t come out at the cleaners Enda, ask Monica.
Looking at this picture you can see that Edna is hypnotized by Bill’s  CHARISMA.  He still has it that not too many leaders have.  Pity Bill cannot pass it on.   Mr. Trump could do with a good dose of it.
@C_O’S: shut up you idiot.
Toadying creep
Hopefully Bill was offering him a job in the US, stamping Green “Shield Stamps” Cards
Well look…at least he didn’t bring Hilary with him so count your blessings.
That’s all we need. This useless clown kenny getting even more delusional.
10/10 for Kennys handshake,you could see his lips counting to 3 for timing.
Good story bro !
Enda looks like Bill was Santa, did he ask Bill for the money back from Hillary’s campaign???
Alright. Alright, Albright!
I’d say the actual state of the economy and what the gov are trying to portray are world’s apart. Kenny trying very hard to portray himself as some sort of competent leader (its fairly obvious he actually does very little), noonans leprechaun economics distorting the finance figures , harris’s constant very public promises and related undeliverables, plus the current highlighted trouble in the state bus, postal and tv services, plus the high cost of living through high taxation indicate this gov is still flat broke.
Bill Clinton must be scraping the bottom of ether barrell is he bothers tll
Both Clinton and Kenny are out to stop Africa developing.  See this video to find out how you are being ripped off by a crowd of hysterics.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJBDI7jVMqM
Spike reported in traffic to escorts ireland
We like bill he has all the charm that got him his nick name of trickey dickey unlike his wife who is a horrible person who has no charm at all
Was Monika with him xxx
…
How is that relevant?
@Pauric McKenna:Clinton’s speech was superb.Don’t know why Journal are making a big deal of the Kenny thing, there were at least 4  highlights that outshone it.His imagining of McGuiness’ eulogy to himself was funny and poignant.His instruction to the congregation to earn the legacy that McGuiness created was inspiring.
@Pauric McKenna: Apologies I can see now that Clinton’s speech got proper coverage in an earlier Journal article.Not sure we needed two atricles on the same speech, good as it was.
@Brinster: My point is that in what context was it relevant to pat Enda Kenny on the back about an unrelated speech at the funeral of McGuinness?
@Pauric McKenna: When you get an ex U.S. president to speak at your event for free, something for which he would normally charge hundreds of thousands of dollars, you don’t usually get to be a stickler for staying on topic.
Oh the shinners won’t like that!!!!Has Gorry said anything negative about Trump yet?Suppose those NY Fundraisers need protecting….
@Pauric McKenna: I know that was your point. It just wasn’t a very good point. The speech was inclusive, expansive, tolerant and generous.Everything your comment wasn’t.
Not the right venue to be showboating.None on the Clintons have any class.
@Each Way Thief: He really, really wasn’t showboating.His speech was fantastic. You should watch it in its entirety.He drew warm ovations for Kenny and Foster. He drew laughter and poignancy. Very few could have done that.He really is one of the best orators going.
Does that make Clinton a Blueshirt?
The sexbeast that destroyed Yugoslavia.
Good speech he still has the chrisma our politicians would love to have….
@Piotrek Król: How?
@Mjhint: he sucked the ditties of Monica and was instrumental in the break up of the balkans
@Willard the Rat: I’m not a fan of Clintons but to suggest he broke up the former Yugoslavia is a comment with very little understanding of that conflict. I suggest you go there & learn the true story.
There a time and place for bill to brown nose Edna . Today was not the place for it .
I wonder how much Clinton got paid to sing endas praise, this was martins funeral, not a auld lads get together, the cheek of these men
What a fantastic tribute. Clinton is a great speaker. Still can’t believe Martin has left us, we’ll all be worse off without him. I hope like Bill said, everybody will work together to finish the work Martin has left behind and really give us peace and democratic government in the north for good
@Declan Moran: Spot on DeclanGreat speech and fitting tribute to MMcG
Martin McGuinness should be an inspiration for all current dissidents to lay down there weapons and start being peaceful. Rip“let everyone leave all their guns outside the door”
Jaysus shinners upset end upstaged them. To be fair though it’s Martins day.
lol, Clinton, classless as ever. Used a funeral mass to get in a dig a Trump, what a loser.
A headline with Kenny and Clinton in the one go. I wonder what tone the comments will be?
Scoring points at somebody’s funeral,  now that’s a new low even for a politician,  The IMI no doubt won’t make the trick either,  two shots at flooding Ireland with scammers twice in the one week.
Oh I don’t know Joe, dodn’t Padraig Pearse use O’ Donovan Rossa’s funeral to give one of the most powerful political speeches in Ireland’s history?
Kenny s speech in U S had about as much impact as a feather in a tornado.
That’s what you took from it? Christ!
We are loosing a real leader we are a daft country letting someone so good step down Europe can see it the USA can see it but we can’t
Go way you auld sex pest.
Anyone would think Kenny wrote the speech himself. All he did was do what anyone with a pair of balls would have done.
@Willie the kid:kenny done no more or less for the illegals in the us he ended up thinking he is a great man not….
people on the internet or anywhere else.Can you not spell loosing? Its fukcing losing!!@
If i was a rep warrior my greatest day would be slaughter of the greatest number of the enemy. Not my burial.
Bullshit
Does anyone care really?
@Mick Jordan: Yes!
@Billy Pilgrim: bullshit charge, ha ha ha, you’re mad if you think he is innocent! Or his family
@Billy Pilgrim: Firstly Billy I wouldn’t be getting involved in illegal political rallies (or even legal ones) in a foreign nation. Secondly I wouldn’t be constantly lying to the people of Ireland as to my incarceration (if got myself arrested in the first place). And Finally if I had dual nationality I wouldn’t publicly declare for one and then cry for the other to get me out of the trouble I placed myself in, in the first place. Halawa is no different to any foreign criminal in Prison in Ireland. Or do you think  the foreign criminals in our Prisons should be given special treatment too?
@Boeing Lover: What’s he guilty of mate. Have you got anything to say?
@Mick Jordan: Jesus Christ Mick. He was a child of 17 when he was arrested. He’s been held without charge for 4 years, and now we see his name doesn’t even appear on documentation for this trial, which is in itself, a farce.Plenty of ROI people protested in NI during the 70′s and 80′s at the treatment of Catholics. Political protests over a lack of access to justice. If one of those was incarcerated without trial would you feel the same level of contempt as you do towards Halawa. Of course you wouldnt. Why? Halawa is a muslim. It’s pure bigotry man, paint it whatever way you want.As for the people on this thing calling for a ‘fact check’ you don’t care about the facts. The facts are out there. Amnesty has done great work in this respect. People just want to come on this side and spout bigoted bollocks to make themselves feel good.
@Billy Pilgrim: At 17 he was more than able to stand on a public stage and declare for the Muslim Brotherhood. And he wasn’t alone his older sisters were right there beside him. And what did they do when given Bail on the same charges as him!! They legged it. They thought so much about their younger brother in an Egyptian Prison that they said fu@k him, we will save our own skins.  And where has his Father been all this time? Surely hiding in Clonskeigh is doing a lot for his son. So if his own family tossed him aside like a used condom why should the rest of us care?
@Billy Pilgrim: Foaming bigot? I wouldn’t say that. Why would you care about the rights of someone who is in favour of removing the rights for swathes of society by the imposition of Sharia Law? Maybe we could do a cultural swap and let you live in Iran with all your family. I’m sure the women and any gay members of your family would relish the idea.
@Dilly Dong: You sound like Trump.What evidence have you to suggest he was “radicalised”?Is the testimonial of his Irish friends, who knew him best in the world, who say he was a decent lad caught up in something not of his making, not good enough for you?You’re chatting pure shite, but it’s not surprising.
@John Cassidy: Your comment just completely proves my point.“Why would you care about the rights of someone who is in favour of removing the rights for swathes of society by the imposition of Sharia Law?”Where are you getting this from?“Maybe we could do a cultural swap and let you live in Iran with all your family.I’m sure the women and any gay members of your family would relish the idea.”What’s Iran got to do with anything? We’re talking about an Irish citizen detained without trial in Egypt.
@Billy Pilgrim: You do know who is father is? The European Head of the Muslim Brotherhood. Now growing up in a Political household like that it would be neigh impossible not to have views that we here in the West would deem as radical or extreme.
@Mick Jordan: You’ve obviously got it sussed mate. Like I said, don’t ever land yourself in hot water in Thailand, it’s meant to be every bit as bad as the pit in Egypt.
@Billy Pilgrim: like I said Billy. Obey the Laws of the Host Country you are a guest in and you will have no problems. He chose not to and he is where he is. You make your bed, You lay in it.
@Mick Jordan: Fair enough. Good luck.
@Billy Pilgrim: as stated earlier this chap told thousands he was an eygptian citizen who happens to live in ireland and tore up his irish passport…But when everything caught up with him he wants to revert to being Irish..Google his father to see how radicalised they are.. also google the family organised protest in Dublin that kept males and females in different sections.. was a poor turn out to
@Billy Pilgrim: Yes, he does seem to have it sussed and I’m sure he wouldn’t be stupid enough to land himself in hot water in Thailand (not sure what that has to do with Ibrahim Halawa though).
By name calling Billy you have lost all arguments. If  a Paddy Murphy was over there and the exact  same thing happened he would get the same treatment on here with same NO sympathy. It is you who is the inverted bigot spreading your racist hate filled rubbish here..
@SteveW: Inverted racist? Are you off your head?“If a Paddy Murphy was over there and the exact same thing happened he would get the same treatment on here with same NO sympathy.”Not a chance.
@Billy Pilgrim:Every chance. I don’t remember seeing much or any sympathy for wee Terence Kelly, for example.Or the white Irish dude who’s locked up in Thailand, whatever his name is.
@Naberius: His name is Eanna Coughlan, and it’s a dreadful story.
@Naberius: Terence Kelly was a suicide bomber, which is a pathetic, tragic way to go. Obviously despicable too. What kind of mental illness must he have had?Completely different situation to Halawa though, so lets not try and pretend otherwise.
@Dilly Dong: Your idiotic trolling is hard to grasp. He is not an extremist, he was  peacefully protesting the deposition of the first democratically elected government in Egypt by a military junta, supported by foreign governments. The Muslim Brotherhood is not an extremist organization. The fact that you believe this propaganda shows your ignorance. What would you do if the military seized power, while being supported a hostile state, in this country? Protest?
Yes inverted. Don’t like being defined by labelling eh? Well don’t throw it around like confetti then..
@SteveW: Tw@
@Billy Pilgrim:Eanna Coughlan is in the Philippines. The Irish dude in Thailand tried to sell drugs to a cop or something like that. I forget and don’t care.As for what mental illness Terence Kelly had, I reckon he came down with a bad dose of Islam.It’s not completely different to Halawa. Terence Kelly was another Muslim buffoon with Irish citizenship and Islamist tendencies who blundered his way into some Middle Eastern nonsense, just like Ibrahim!Terence finished up a bit further along the path is all.
@Billy Pilgrim:That’s Allah U Akbar, Billy!!Less of this Jesus Christ when the article is referring to a Muslim brotherhood member.,………..duh!!
@Alan Cooke: Nice one Alan! Your gas!
Wow you really do love your labels Billy. Can give them but can’t take em eh? Btw way my wife who is from Maylasia says he is an effin idiot too. What label would you give her she would like to know.
@Naberius:“As for what mental illness Terence Kelly had, I reckon he came down with a bad dose of Islam.”Wrong. There are over a billion adherents of the Islamic faith in the world. If they all harboured a desire to kill themselves and others, we wouldn’t be here. Kelly was the product of whatever environment he came from (Irish Catholic.) Mental illness was almost certainly a factor in his case. Why else would he kill himself?“It’s not completely different to Halawa. Terence Kelly was another Muslim buffoon with Irish citizenship and Islamist tendencies who blundered his way into some Middle Eastern nonsense, just like Ibrahim!”I don’t know what to say… reductive, willfully ignorant and openly bigoted. Own that bigotry though. Stand over it and take responsibility for it.
@SteveW: I don’t know you or your wife.I’m sure you’re both lovely people day to day, this is just an issue that me and you, two strangers on the internet, won’t find consensus on.In fact we will. He was an idiot, young and foolish, but the punishment does not fit the crime.
@Billy Pilgrim:I didn’t say all Muslims have a desire to kill themselves. Islam does spawn almost all of the world’s suicide bombers, however. How rare!No, I said Kelly had a bad dose of Islam, that being a particularly awful version of something that is already foul.Terence Kelly was ultimately a product of his jail time in Saudi Arabia and his conversion to Islam. Irish Catholics don’t do suicide bombings or Sharia.He killed himself because he was a terrorist fool who believed in Islamic guff.What I said is not reductive, ignorant, or bigoted; it’s entirely fair and accurate. If not, do point out exactly what you see wrong with it.
Ok agree with you there Billy. Time out..
@Billy Pilgrim: oh yes you go over to see family according to his sisters and sure why not go down to a protest and start shouting the odds strange for a so called irish citizen to get involved with a foreign goverment..just a thought
@Billy Pilgrim: you don’t know  that though .do you not think that he’s more radicalized now after three years being  locked up?
@SteveW: No sweat mate.
@Billy Pilgrim: Are you a British citizen? If so, why are you commenting here? The case has nothing to do with you.
@Stephen Finn: Listen man, I agree with you. It was not a smart move to make.But we have to stand back from the whole situation. You and I will never know the thoughts, feelings and emotions that Halawa was experiencing at this time.His parent’s (and his) country had just come out of a dictatorship and the people, for the first time in decades, had a controlling say in how society was governed.A majority of people, mostly the poor, voted for the Muslim Brotherhood, who proposed some good things like wealth redistribution and also some bad things (at least to Western standards) like social conservatism. How this would have turned out we’ll never know, because they were deposed by the military with the backing of the West.A young man, both Egyptian and Irish and having a sense of the history of both countries got swept up in a legitimate, if prohibited, protest. Who’s to say you or I wouldn’t have done the same in his position?He has languished in an Egyptian jail for the last four years without trial for his mistake and that is wrong in my view.
@Billy Pilgrim: billy you fall for  this bull you haven’t answered the question where is his mother and father, there is no way i would have got involved with a protest over a goverment that rules a country i dont live in,if he was a native irish i would guarantee the irish parents would have been on the news 24/7 the guy was an idiot they are only telling half truths. we have more important things going on in this country tough!
@Mick Jordan: “You do know who is father is? The European Head of the Muslim Brotherhood”Ibrahim Munir Mustafa, who lives in the UK, is the head of the Muslim Brotherhood in Europe, not Hussein Halawa.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibrahim_Munir_Mustafa
@Billy Pilgrim: it’s not a bulshit  charge he is accused of belonging to a terrorist group namely  the Muslim brotherhood who by the way are killing christians in Egypt
@Billy Pilgrim: billy dig a little deeper it ain’t a trumped up charge, the Egyptian government know to well who they have, a lot of this is to do with who his father is.
@David Jordan: Where is the European HQ of the Muslim Brotherhood based. Answer: Clonskeigh. Who is in a  leadership role of Clonskeigh Mosque. Answer: Hussein Halawa.
@Billy Pilgrim:You need to open your eyes to the reality of the MB under Morsi.  This may help:http://www.cihrs.org/?p=6849&lang=enAlso nobody was directly comparing Halawa to suicide bomber Terence Kelly – it was being used as an example to highlight that it’s not a case of skin colour, more a case of political views.  If you prefer take Liam Egan of Wexford as an example – a white Irishman who is equally berated on here for his support for islamism.
@Billy Pilgrim: sorry but this guy went to egypt to support moslim brotherhood a organisation that believes that gay people Perticularly gay men should be killed and that all non sunni moslims religions should be extremely restricted or banned has there first measures in a new Islamic Republic of egypt       so Irish people should support this guy. .!!!!
@Billy Pilgrim: You open your comment with “Jesus Christ man”. That phrase could see your ensure a death threat under Sharia law in certain countries.  Halawa was trying to force Sharia in Egypt when he was arrested.  Boylan and more Politicians are guiding us down to sloping path to giving sharia more acceptably here but don’t seem to care.  Fighting for his human rights will see out human rights eventually eroded completely in the long term,  if he was not so closely to Muslim Brotherhood,  there might be a case for him but his name was Johnny Cooper nobody would feel the need to refer to him so frequent as Irish,  which is debatable,  be honest and refer to him ax the young dual citizenship young lad!
You cant be on a hunger strike on and off. Its called dieting for christs sake. You are either on hunger strike or not. Most people are aware why he was there and who his farther is and the acts of terrorism he is charged with in various other countrie. The same man is also silent in all of this while fighting deportation from Ireland.
I was on hunger strike from half 8 this morning to lunch time, my stomach thought my throat was cut.
@Billy Pilgrim: well there’s no such thing as being on and off hungar strike is there?
@Billy Pilgrim: The chap travelled to Eygpt in support of sharia law and the muslum brotherhood. Ripped up his irish passport on a stage in front of thousands and declared that he is an eygptian who lives in Ireland.If not a Diet then maybe just skipping meals, which is known to be bad for your overall health but not life threatening. Hunger strikes means no food until death, you only get 1 go at it
@Suzie Sunshine: It’s more a hunger work-to-rule.
Billy if you are on the new journal app you won’t see that you currently have more dislikes than likes.
@Caillte: I couldn’t care less.
@Ben McArthur: 39, they’d do well to help the young lady who walked miles to the Dail to seek urgent help for her daughter. Hang yer heads off a roof with shame. Sending medics, great for political engagement points but never to help their own. 39 news articles on this is a bit much and reeks of agenda
@Paudi Onail: oh and look…. we have an update at 10pm, working late on it, no updates on the massacre in london where people lost their lives to what is no doubt an ideological hate crime. something not right here, whether its getting funded, or its for some sort of research on opinion, who knows but the unbelievable attention is really fishy.
Has anybody seen proof on any media outlet that he was born in the coombe ? Because his best friend says otherwise . But this comment will probably get deleted  too by the journal ..
@Suzie Sunshine: he was born in the coombe in 1995 and yet  his father arrived over here in 1996  .
As a Sinn Fein supporter I am not in agreement with Lynn Boylan. I am old enough to remember the Irish men who actually went on a real hunger strike and the 10 who gave their lives. I do not in anyway support the cause of the Muslim Brotherhood. nor do I support the cause of Ibrahim Halawa. But what I would say is, if he wants to be taken seriously then stay on hunger strike, stop start does’nt count. you’re a man now act like one.
@Billy Pilgrim: How so, explain to me what is so f*cked up about it.
@Just Me: Your concern appears to be that Halawa isn’t hunger striking correctly? Demented.
If he was my son or brother I wouldn’t be sitting at home expecting my Government to act on my behalf!! I’d be in that country doing all I could to secure justice for my son or brother!! While I think it’s inhumane to be interned without trial for so long, I don’t think any country should interfere with the laws of another country. Why haven’t his family return to their country to help him?? That I do not understand!!
@June Rose-Sommer: His 3 sisters who were arrested along with their baby brother Ibrahim have skipped bail and fled here so this is why they can’t go back to Egypt. Also their father is much wanted by the Egyptian authorities as well.
The whole family is wanted over there ..
@John Flanagan: Bah ha ha! Baby brother!
@John Flanagan: Thank you John!! Now I get the picture!!
@John Flanagan:how do you know the fled and skipped bail? They were stopped from leaving at the airport but did they skip over the border illegally or fly again. I think it was the latter.
@lavbeer: Read this:http://www.herald.ie/news/youll-be-arrested-if-you-ever-set-foot-in-egypt-halawa-sisters-warned-31211171.html
@John Flanagan: ok thanks never seen that. The IT focused on the welcome home. Might be google searching skillsSo wonder did they cross border out of   Egypt and to where. Jordan maybe. Now there is a question for a journalist to ask
No other outlet is pushing this story more than the journal. Whats the fixation with this person that rips up his Irish passport in a mosque and takes part in an event to overthrow a foreign Government. His father part of the muslim brotherhood  was interviewed on Irish tv and showed little emotional concern about his son or daughters whilst in prison. so if the father doesnt show any real concern why should the Irish media or  Irish government. If this story is true about his health well I don’t think he will see a trial, Maybe his islamic loving  pc brigade and some of the journal journalists  can move with the family back to Egypt.
@Al S Macthomais: Wrong. The protest wasn’t about overthrowing the government. It was in response to the military coup in which the democratically elected government was overthrown.“Maybe his islamic loving pc brigade and some of the journal journalists can move with the family back to Egypt.”Pathetic, low IQ drivel.
@Billy Pilgrim: Only drivel is your pc bleeding heart stance. Morsi was seen by many Egyptians as preoccupied with establishing Islamic political control rather than tackling economic and social problems of Egypt. Morsi and Muslim Brotherhood Wants to create a state governed by Islamic law and the slogan“Islam is the solution”.This Egyptian person was  using  the Irish passport or any Western passport as a passport of convenience that shows  no loyalty to the country they now reside in. HIs sisters on TV dressed like they still in the middle east were also at the protests. I have been told by people from the middle east who are ex muslims the islamic world sees  western values as corrupt but to use western media, education and technological advancement as weapons against  western society for creation of an islamic  state ends.  I  haven’t  seen in the last 30 years since Brian Keenan, Terry Waite, John McCarthy received such media coverage.One despotic regime after another with either Western or Russian backed control has been in place in Egypt.I  have worked out in North Africa, Middle east, Asia and Americas for  over 20 years. Islamic world  offers nothing to the rest of the world and has not produced any scientific, educational, literal or medical discovery in over 700 years to the advancement of humankind.Democracy doesn’t work in a society thats based on   a medieval religious death cult and tribal loyalties. Egypt made be the 2nd largest receiver of US  military aid after Israel doesn’t alter the fact. Reported he entered  Egypt on an Egyptian passports with his sisters shows they weren’t there  on a holiday and also ripped up his Irish passport in a mosque through various witness and  video footage shows little concern for the Irish State that issued him with a passport in the first place.  This person in Egyptian jails  father is regarded  as the spokesperson of Muslim Brotherhood and well known to Morsi  adds to the intrigue in Ireland makes his incarceration and refusal by the Egyptian  authorities to have him released because of his family history.
@Billy Pilgrim: The military came to the aid of ordinary Egyptian citizens who protested against the MB attempts to impose Sharia. Al Sisi stood for election and received more votes than Morsi received in the previous vote. MB sympathisers always seem to ignore these facts.
Ladies and gentlemen, this individual is the reason the red tumbs vanished
@Trevor Beacom: the ability to mute fools will soon remove the red thumb loss and get better debate going
@lavbeer: meh maybe, but the thumbs scared the bejesus out of the medias and government spin
@Trevor Beacom: not at all. Better for good debate than muppets ranting and spoiling debate. A few fools jump to mind.
Fact Check Bump
@Sean: what looks like to be hitting over 40 articles on it, all one sided, we should think now an article on just who are the muslim brotherhood, and the connections this guys father has, who remains quiet to this day. Just give us one fact check on it, you never know it might even help ye gain support if ye can prove otherwise, but ye can’t and thats why its one sided bias. sick.
Can anyone tell me how much the government has wasted on consular and mep visits to date? Maybe the journal can seek that information under freedom of information and the government can recoup this cost from mr.halawa senior.
STOP….. DO NOT COMMENT/DO NOT THUMB, “DO NOT FEED THE JOURNALIST”
@Kieran Mcnamee: Oops what have you just done?
If, and it’s a big IF, Halawa has made the decision to refuse food and his health has deteriorated, this has no bearing on his innocence – or lack of it.It must be understood that his refusal of food is nothing more than a protest, to use it as a portrayal of his innocence is a cynical ploy by his family. They don’t want him to face a trial, not now, not next week, not ever. They want him released and are prepared to gamble everything to get what they want, including Ibrahim.
@Jed I. Knight: Those sneaky Muslims!
If he or any other person goes to a country known to be dangerous then you must have some self responsibility. Also, as a 17 year old his parents should have acted responsible.
Yawn..
Journal’s next poll suggestion: Should we bring back red thumbs
Good enough for him
Is he stil alive this is a record for a hunger strike
LISTEN FOR THE 100th TIME WE DONT CARE WE DONT GIVE A FLYING FIGROLL. WE DIDN’T ASK HIM TO GO AND BE A THUG. NOW MOVE ONTO SOMETHING ELSE
Is this guy as innocent as everyone says he is? Is there a chance he could have been radicalized while in jail for the last four years?
First of all he is not Irish so who cares .He went over there to cause trouble that’s why he is still there
Is that 38 or 39?
@Ben McArthur: 40, they updated this trash article at 10pm…No shame.
Kenny disturbed yeah disturbed of his eating his lunch . Kenny doesn’t care if he did he would of acted last year or 18 months ago. Shame on our government for letting this get to this stage .
@Keith Boland: They’d rather debate about a dress code inside the dail, not actually trying to get the poor lad out and home!
poor lad my arse
@Keith Boland: what exactly do you think the Irish government can do ? Do you think that they have some sort of control over a judicial system in another country . The shame is on his father in all of this not our  government. .
He is at home , he is ethnically Arab and a supporter of the terrorist gang the Muslim brotherhood
@Billy Pilgrim: billy hopefully that lad does himself a favour and goes full time at the auld hunger strike. Sick of this f@€ker filling up the journal feed. If you dare to tear up an Irish passport you don’t deserve sh@t from the Irish government.
@David Toke: My passport got destroyed in the wash…
@Billy Pilgrim: your a useless troll
20 times! If that was Ireland he would have got a 3 month suspended sentence by now!
Bad timing to bring out halawa saga once more on the day of london attack. Should have wait few days. Halawa is never ending story and journal obsession.
@Pat Patovic:It’s disgusting, the journal are apologists for jihad. no fkn shame,RIP to the dead in the UK.
@Pat Patovic: Its part of the diversity-cult of the liberal left MSM
Jesus Christ.  Try him and hang him already!!
Yawn……
If his father doesn’t give a shot about him why should our government, he hasn’t once given an interview about him. He send the three sisters out
Sean Murray you are an idiot! Hopefully this lad sees the justice side of the Egyptian court system and gets what’s coming to him! Hopefully the rest of his family are stupid enough to go to Egypt and feel the brunt of the justice they deserve. Criminals all of them. Irish citizens ha don’t make me laugh, either your in or your out. Don’t dare hide behind the passport I’m proud to bare and play the I’m Irish card when your afraid of the consequences to your actions!
forget about this old news
The Left have shutdown legitimate questions about this case and the family. This is not doing their campaign any good.
”A provisional existence of indefinite duration” is torture, according to Viktor Frankl, death-camp survivor and great psychiatrist.  It seems there’s very little support for this young man back home in IRL, with many ready to blame him wholesale for getting involved in the undoubtedly dangerous politics of his native country, which does not hew to Western standards of justice. But torture is torture, a process whereby at least two human beings are rendered sub-human, and it degrades us all to have a fellow citizen suffer it without our exerting all efforts to help, same as Shannon Airport and the facilitation of US torture flights degrades us all.Egypt is a signatory to the UN Convention Against Torture since 1986.  Is there no mechanism at UN level that can be employed to at least embarrass if not oblige the Egyptian authorities to either try or release him?
@John O’Driscoll: By the simple act of him having to have his detention renewed by a sitting Judge every 8 weeks it is by definition not “Indefinite”. If he had only appeared once before a court since his detention then one could make the claim of it being indefinite. But as we know that is quite clearly not the case.
@John O’Driscoll: Spot on John. The lads and ladies on this site don’t care about that though. Let the muslim rot they say.
@Billy Pilgrim:I don’t see any reason why people on this site should care about Ibrahim Halawa’s well-being.The fact is Egyptian Muslims have jailed another Egyptian Muslim. It’s not our problem.You could head down to Clyde Road and do a bit of protesting outside the Egyptian embassy if you feel so inclined but I guess you can’t be arsed.
@Billy Pilgrim: You really think people give a damn about his religion? It’s the Muslim Brotherhood that are the problem with people on here. You’re to blinkered with your ultra liberal ways. Believe me, I’m a live and let live type of guy. You can be sure the Muslim Brotherhood are not those kind of guys.
@John Cassidy: How do you know though? Do you think the reason the Muslim Brotherhood were labeled a terrorist organisation has anything to do with religion? It doesn’t.The Muslim Brotherhood was labelled as such because they posed a risk to Western interests in the region, ie access to trade routes, potential interference in the Israel/Palestine conflict, etc.The primary exporters of Islamic terrorsim globally are the Saudi’s, who are ruled by the Wahhabi sect of Spanish Inquisition style zealots. Why are they not classed a terror organisation? Because they enrich the West at the expense of their own people.This is not about being “ultra-liberal.” It’s simply about demanding that an Irishman (like it or not) that has done nothing wrong, other than attend a protest, and is now festering in an Egyptian jail, be afforded his human rights.
@Billy Pilgrim: are you forgetting  the fact that he is also Egyptian?  a country that doesn’t recognise dual citizenship?
America doesn’t recognise dual citizenship either, at least regarding naturalised US citizens (in fact their US Oath of citizenship requires them to forswear all others, which is why I’m glad you didn’t elect Dana as you’d then have had an official liar as President. Bad enough you have them in every other elected office).  But that wouldn’t or shouldn’t stop Ireland from standing up for Irish-American dual citizens if say one of them was found in N379P being hoist into torture via SHannon Illegal War and Torture Port.  Of course that is a ridiculous scenario,  Ireland doesn’t search US aircraft for torture victims, not even aircraft known and documented as torture birds, such as the aforementioned N379P. Because America doesn’t allow Ireland to.As Erskine Childers observed: a State that cannot control Her own ports is no State at all.
Mick Jordan, the inmates of the Death Camps were told “Work will set you free”. That didn’t make their existence any less provisional nor any less indefinite in duration.
I don’t particularly care for Islam. I certainly don’t care for jihadists.  I do, however, care for Ireland making herself a an whooooore to every foreign despot that comes here demanding we shelter them while they torture their slaves.  Because that makes us just as bad as “them” and then, what is it that we stand for, what is it we defend?  Likewise, passive acceptance of any Irish citizen regardless of colour nationality religion ethnic origin whatever, being tortured, is to torture them ourselves.“A country is not just what it does, it is what it tolerates.”  I’ve seen that written on the walls of Yad Vashem.
@John O’Driscoll: Under our own legal code a person can be detained on remand for up to two years. Now the simple fact is that he is under Egyptian legal jurisdiction with their codes of practice. He and those charged with him are being brought before the court every 8 weeks to be further remanded. So under Egyptian law he is being treated legally and fairly.  What you and those like you think is fair and unfair is frankly immaterial to the Egyptian Musical system.
@Billy Pilgrim: How do I know the Muslim Brotherhood are not live and let live kind of guys? Scratch the surface Billy and you’ll find “Believers are but Brothers”, “Islam is the Solution”, and “Allah is our objective; the Qur’an is the Constitution; the Prophet is our leader; jihad is our way; death for the sake of Allah is our wish” As I said the fact Halawa is Muslim is irrelevant. The fact he supports the Muslim Brotherhood is very relevant.Nice that you have knowledge about the geopolitical clusterfnck that is the Middle East but that bears no relevance to this case.This guy Halawa would happily see your mother and sisters downgraded to second class citizens and happily see others whipped and stoned because they think  “Allah” wouldn’t like their actions.Get over yourself and lose your bleeding heart liberalism.
@Billy Pilgrim: And I never said the Muslim Brotherhood were terrorists. I just think they’re @ssholes.
@John O’Driscoll: What has America to do with this case? There’s a lot wrong with America not limited to its warmongering but again irrelevant to this discussion.
send his dad over to free him
I think.we should all get on.pur knees and as a nation, publicly entreat the Pope to make poor Ibrahim  a saint!  My heart bleeds for this Islamic Fundamentalist every night.
Regardless of personal opinions, this court case should have taken place and not postponed twenty times !
If his first name was Sean or Patrick and his last name Murphy or O Brien, there’d be more of an outcry on here… I didn’t realise that we were as passively racist as we seem to be.
@Declan Foley: Nobody cried for Terence Kelly
@Declan Foley: If his name was Patrick or Sean and he supported Sharia Law I’d still have no sympathy for him.
You’re the one bringing race into it pal.
@Declan Foley: Religion is NOT a race! Ibrahim’s skin colour has nothing to do with it too! It’s his motives for supporting the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt as well as his family’s and the different versions they gave to the media at subsequent occasions which we find questionable.
@Declan Foley: and he wouldn’t be fluent Egyptian speaker on stage preaching to the masses for that matter
@Declan Foley:Heres an Irish name for you:Locked up in the Philippians for allegedly having a small amount of drugs that he has consistently claimed were planted on him by police in order to obtain a bribe.Eanna O’CochlainTheres been a couple of articles on here over the years, no signs of any massive outcry though.
@Declan Foley: it’s not racism
@Declan Foley: It’s not racism at all. It’s fear of and opposition to Islamic fundamentalist violence .See London yesterday. It’s not a great jump form the Islamic Brotherhood to support of ISIS.
He’s a fellow human being he should be tried or released. Many have strayed in the youthful years.
Lol these shinners
@SeanMJourno check out this source and do a follow up;http://markhumphrys.com/halawa.htmlif not, why not?
I think the majority of Irish taxpayers don’t want any more of our money wasted on Halawa, be it flying out to say hello or legal challenges.
prognosis is stir-crazy,
If you go to another country you go there as a visitor or guest there for you respect their rules and you are ruled by their laws.  You can’t complain when you break their laws and end up in a rat infested cell.  its easy pick a flag and hold on
Enda Kenny, you bucket of shit, you are  more concerned about this other bucket of shit than getting an innocent Irishman Eanna O’Cochlain tried and sentenced to 12yrs for a crime of allegedly smuggling .38grams of cannabis, back home from that hell of a prison in the Philippines.
People don’t care about his surname or religion. They do care that Ibrahim was up on stage supporting the Muslim Brotherhood who at that stage had been inciting violence and a civil war against the Coptic Christians in Egypt, an estimated 800 Christians had been murdered and no end in sight to the slaughter.Egypt needed the coup to remove these terrorists away from power. Ibrahim was supporting these terrorists. He looked for trouble and he got trouble, that is why there is very little sympathy for him.The military government in Egypt are still fighting the Muslim Brotherhood who are still behind attacks on Christians in that country.The Muslim Brotherhood had no intention of bringing Egypt together, it was to divide, slaughter and bring strict sharia law into practice.Ibrahim was actively supporting this barbarism.
Fact check
I do. Were all Irish. The Egyptian Gov is a terrible dictatorship backed by the US in order to keep the peace on Israel’s southern border.,
Reading the comments of the racist filth here makes me ashamed to be Irish.
@Brendan Keegan:Please point out which racist comments you were referring to.
@Avina Laaf: If this guy had a Irish name and was not a Muslim then these imbeciles would shouting their heads off. He is a Irish citizen  not matter what and he should be regarded as such. If he committed a crime then he should be tried and have recourse to justice. If he is innocent he should released. Some of the comments above are anti-Muslim plain and simple.Read me.
@Brendan Keegan: let him rot in Egypt where he belongs Brendan! If u want to rip up an Irish passport then your on your own as far im concerned! Enough men and woman died under the flag of green for me and you to have to the right to bare that passport and for an individual to rip that up and then pretend that he didn’t is cowardly! He is where he belongs!
@Brendan Keegan: As far as I can see there’s no racist rhetoric going on here. Just people not supporting someone who condones Sharia Law and got himself in trouble in doing so. Only has himself to blame. Where’s his Dad in all this argument? Conspicuous in his absence.
@Mick Jordan:
Egypt is a signatory to the UN Convention Against Torture.  Take action against Egypt there.  Just hope everyone keeps whisht about shameful SHannon War and Torture Port…
‘Disturbed’. Oooh what a hard man. As if that’s going to change anything.
Both Leo and Simon have been shown up to be weak,not a peep out of both of them since kenny came back from America,the weakest leader Ireland has ever had and the two boyos go missing,that says a lot about the future of Fine Gael
@dick dastardly: more spine in a jelly fish,,,oppps sorry jelly fish have no spine,,, enough said
@dick dastardly: It’s a party without a spine.
Come the end of April, there’ll be another crisis Enda has to take care of, then the summer break, so pointless changing until September, then … Enda’s going nowhere.
@Anne Marie Devlin: why get rid of him and replace him with an unelected FG crown though? Just another pension. Like it or not he knows the EU leaders and has a relationship there (how strong I don’t know). Leo or Simon would make a difference. In fact wanting to lynch Enda makes FG populist (notably Rock and Farrell)
Well if none of them have the grapes to stand against a lame duck leader who’s dragging their party down, it doesn’t augur well for them fighting Ireland corner in the Brexit negotiations. Ireland will be little more than a stick to beat the UK with.
And no sign on those with no confidence speaking out. Send the boys before the men I suppose.
After bring in all those taxes, now he can f…o… and take a pension for it. It is better for him to go but it is like hiring a cleaner who robs the place and then breaks everything else while cleaning it?
Leo’s dream for the Blouse shirts is on hold ☺
Rebels !!! Don’t make Me laugh
Clinging on like a barnacle to a boat,as fg cowards stay silent.
Power is seductive.
End of April! Eeeehhhh, Which year?
Enda does appear to love power. Apparently we can write off the 2 pretenders to the throne as they appear to have no back bone. Ireland needs a leader who will it be???????????
Kenny is a proven, professional liar and a national disgrace. Humiliating stuff and Charlie Flanagan’s contribution today was nauseating
Enda wants to remain in charge during the Brexit negotiations because he’s paranoid that we might become affected by the notion and the clamour for a referendum on a Retireland grows louder.
The longer he stays the better for rest of the Ireland. Damage he is doing to his party will only be bigger and hopefully more voters will abandon that ship without a captain.
Conveniently forgetting why he was stepping down in the first place. That he lied to the Dail twice.
The Americans made kenny look good because they were simply entertaining him, so conveniently forgetting his disasterous mccabe debacle, not to mention all his controversarys, we’ve magically got our brexit saviour. Only problem is I don’t think the eu people will be conducive to presenting him in such a glowing light as they look after their own interests, thus we’ll probably be seeing the shambolic kenny again.
“pretendenders to his crown”?  I believe the term is “contenders”, unless this is the author’s political opinion!
Yawn… who cares, dog bites dog, they are all the same…….
@Kerry Blake: well it ain’t going to be any of the experts commenting on here!
FG party are a bunch of spineless wonders. Not one of them has the balls to challenge Edna….
I just think this the biggest waste of time and money. Like who cares? Worth a referendum? We’ve more pressing issues. What’s happening with the Tuam babies? Old news?
@john Appleseed: totally agree. As predicted we got agitated for a while about corruption and collusion to defame, torture, murder in major organs of the state – mccabe, tuam. But it’s all in the past now. Enda’s not going anywhere, the little girl is still not receiving her cannabis-based medication and children are not being treated for scoliosis. FG could seriously educate Trump on deflection. Seems we just love the drama of a scandal
@john Appleseed: agreed. People not resident shouldn’t have a say.
@Anne : Just Educate group ( on Facebook) are looking to organise an opt out day on Friday 24th of March to help look for a separation of church and schools.
The further we separate anything from the church the better
How about you get to vote again when you come home?
@Ian McNally: Because there might be elections and referendums in the meantime
How about giving the vote to those who live in Ireland and pay Irish taxes?
@Stephen Conal Moore: Tourists pay VAT, do you want to give them a vote while they’re in Ireland?
@lorcan: If you mean income tax, do you want to take the vote away from parents, the sick or disabled, old people, students?
I don’t think they should have a vote, but if they are going to get one I would go for option 3 but reduced to 5/7 years. Any longer than that and I think you’re too far removed to vote
@Bronagh NicAmhlaoibh: I kind of agree… except here I am at 7 years gone, replying to you.
@Bronagh NicAmhlaoibh: Referendums are once in a generation or once in a lifetime. General elections also have effects that are irreversible. Both have effects on Irish citizens in Ireland and abroad that are immediate and life-changing.
The seagull referendum will be next
@George Roche: You mean the seagull bill.
@George Roche: No referendum as promised on our ancient blasphemy laws but no doubt the Clonskeagh  henchmen are behind that decision!
Typical sidestepping of real issues yet again. This government are so out of touch it is mind boggling..
@SteveW: They’re not side-stepping, successive governments have dodged this obvious reform for years and they are only now doing the bare minimum at the last possible second after the Constitutional Convention strongly recommended it as a first step.
When I lived away I fully agreed with expat Irish being given the vote, but I did not live in Ireland, now that im back, I dont agree with Irish people being given the vote if they dont live in Ireland, I did not know the ins and outs of polices Id vote for, The grass is always greener..
Previously registered only, this would be the most viable option and would curtail the number of people entitled to vote to a manageable and traceable amount of those deemed entitled to use a non-residential postal vote.
Where’s the option to get rid of the presidency? Totally pointless office which costs 100′s of millions.
@Aaron: can you link the 100′s millions or costs?
Biggest danger here is the SF candidate will suddenly get a shot in arm if people from NI are allowed to vote.  No to an all-island election.
@Fred Jensen: or the 40 million Irish/Americans etc.
Or Arlene Foster could get it I suppose?
@Jho Harris: The number of citizens is a tiny fraction of that
@Fred Jensen: Biggest danger is trying to predict how people will vote instead of trying to persuade them. Presumably you’re against letting Austin Curry or Mary McAleese run as well.
Coming from a lad who’s lived in Australia for 6 years, it should either be; No, or An Irish Citizen who has previously voted in an agreed period of time. Probably 2, 5, or 10 years.Why give someone who was registered to vote by default and didn’t bother while living in Ireland the privilege of doing so now?
@Liam Gallagher: Because it’s a right, and because we don’t want to assume that people who abstain “didn’t bother”.
More then two years out of the country and they should lose their vote until such a time as the come back home to reside. Why should someone with little or no plans to return be allowed to have a say on issues that effect the people who live here.
@Nucky: is that a question or a statement? If it’s a question you need to use this, ?, at the end of your sentence.
@Nucky: Because not everyone has such a narrow view of life. Many people care about their families, their friends, their communities and their country. Many citizens are strongly affected by the same issues as everyone else, including but not limited to their decision to leave or return.
While this is a nice gesture. More importantly, All tax payers, north or south should be allowed to vote in general elections.
@Philip Mc Grath: what about non taxpayers? Students? Dole merchants? OAP’s?
@Alan Brogan: are you suggesting Students, OAP etc. don’t pay tax?
Sorry I should have been clear. Every resident and every non resident tax payer should be allowed to vote
@Alan Brogan: get a life fool instead of nitpicking comments your at it all day
@Nucky: meh! I’ll continue, thanks for the feedback though. Carry on with your name calling, very constructive and very instructive of your character
I presume all people in Northern Ireland will have a vote as most of them have applied for Irish passports now that Brexit is upon us
@Bennythekid: Irish people / or indeed any person from within the six counties have had the right to a passport since 1998, and the good Friday agreement. Ignorant comment.
@Bennythekid: you don’t need a passport to be citizen.
I strongly say a person who was born on the isle of Ireland whose mother or father was born on the isle of Ireland whose grand mother or grand father who was born on the isle of Ireland whose great grand father or great grand mother who was born on the isle of Ireland that should block Shari law being introduced into Ireland for a couple of hundred years by then.
Option 2 makes the most sense.
Living away for 18 years now (where did the time go!) and still checking on news from home and commenting and stuff.But reading websites doesn’t make me an informed voter.Either “No”, or “gone less than 2-3 years”I’m definitely coming home, I can vote when that finally happens.
Great you have the extra cash to buy inflated prices for the flight home to do so. Many irish abroad don’t have your income. They take jobs at any rate. But good for you that you didn’t have to.
@@muirinho: You want to limit voting to “informed” voters? That’s the same logic that limited voting to rich, white educated land-owners. Or, you know, we could have a democracy based on citizenship.
Only those who lived less than 12 years out side Ireland should be allowed to have a say. In my early 20s I travelled,  Mid 20s worked abroad always with the plan to return to my home.
@JustMade Ireland: 24 months would be fairer
@JustMade Ireland: Yes, let’s design a Republic based around your personal experience.
How on earth will they be able to register to vote if they haven’t lived in the country for ten or more years or have never registered to vote in Ireland before.
Embassies? Don’t we all register to vote by post here anyway?
Should be anyone who’s permanent residence is in the republic of Ireland is allowed vote from abroad
@Jlocoroco: This is a great example of why setting up emigrant voting would benefit all Irish citizens, wherever they live or travel. Lots of people go on holidays or travel for work and cannot vote, which is outrageous.
This is a load of crap, we need a referendum on the 8th amendment which is a much bigger issue, I personally don’t support a repeal but it’s an issue that needs to be addressed like the gay marriage (which I did support).
@Jun Stone: It’s not either/or and they can even be held on the same day
I’m an Irish citizen living in the Netherlands and can’t  vote in either country, I’m sure they’re are thousands in my situation, as a European I think one should have the right to vote in the country your living in within Europe. (I am allowed to  vote in local and European elections )but not national.
@Sean Lyne: I think you can also run for election there. Go for it.
@Sean Lyne: If a federal Europe ever happens, it is a long time away. In the meantime you can either apply for Netherlands citizenship if you feel that way or campaign for a vote in Ireland and use it to vote for candidates and parties that give more rights to EU citizens or more power to the European Parliament.
Unless Someone Lives and pays Tax here, why should they have a Vote on anything that affects us?
@Maire: Because they are affected too
Im against it but if it happens it needs to be someone who has at least spent some time on this island. Otherwise they will be out of touch with whats going on on the ground. Yes they can read the MSM, but thats not the same.
@Rosa Parks: Since when is being in touch a condition for voting? What kind of democracy or citizenship would that imply? Bizarre statement.
When you live abroad you only get news for the government station RTE,  unless you have a family that when you speck to them they only talk about government issues. When i phone home i only what to know about family issues, and this may come as a shock but lads when you are away you don’t care who is running the country. last time i came home you had voted in a self servicing gob sh#t and a poet in the park. so if you give the vote to ex-pats god help us all.
@garry murphy: If citizens abroad don’t care who is running the country, why would they vote? It sounds like you’re not happy with recent results yourself
If you have no skin in the game of Irish society, you should have no say. No taxation – no representation.Kill this nonsense, dont further dilute your vote
@Libertarian Ireland: Unless all citizens have the same rights, your vote is severely diluted.
Well done ENDA!The best man for the job – plenty of years in you yet…….
@Fank Pulman: pleny of years out to grass you mean!
76 % did not support him including 42% don’t know!!!Not exactly a ringing endorsement!!
Amazed that 63% want Trump to come to Ireland…..Despite all the negative stories every day about him on RTE…Must  be fake news
@John003: any rational person would want him to come and they can see the bigger picture.
@John003: Sure it is John, or people are realistic and realise we have to be civil with who the American people have chosen despite our severe reservations about his character and that of those whom surround him.
@john g mcgrath: Where does this poll leave all of the negative  people and their comments?
@John003: Exactly, I am a Trump supporter, but I observed  that support for him among Irish People was no better than 40%.   This could have been media bias.   Will there be violent protest?On fake news,  its everywhere.   I suspect the negative reaction was because people did not watch his speeches and now they observe the real Trump.
@John003: Trump is an evil, racist bigot. He is the epitome of everything hateful and disgusting in a human being. However, he is president of the USA and that office deserves the courtesy of an invitation to visit Ireland.  I will hold my nose and join a  protest against his many disgusting policies while he is here. When he is gone I will wipe all traces of him off my shoes as I would any other piece of muck or garbage.
Claire Byrne live isn’t exactly a scientific measure of Ireland’s population, given that it’s generally watched by people who don’t have decent broadband.
@Ben Coughlan: the poll group is the same each week, and is apparently the second most biased group of Irish people since the constitutional assembly. Can we be very clear… This 0.02% of the population does not represent a consensus.
Given his history of negotiations on the bailout..i.e. pat on the head and a belly rub…will he seekA.  Best for IrelandB.  Best  for EuropeC.  Whatever he’s toldanswers on a postcard…and if you answer A..I have some magic beans you might be interested in…
@Kieran OKeeffe: I want to say A for the magic beans but I have a feeling they’re not real. So I’m gonna go with past form and my own instinct and say C.
@Kieran OKeeffe: definitely c but I reckon bull spite would say different why because he is deluded just like his fuhrer kenny.the magic beans go to bull spite no doubt.
@Bobby Phelan:Getting his Hs and  Ps mixed up again..ah well..he’ll be in third class soon..
@Kieran OKeeffe: Thank you Kieran, that’s my first lol of the Journal comments this evening.
@Kieran OKeeffe: Given the type of language  and stories on here I am surprised  he would want to come
Is it me or is the journal after getting really crap with its new layout.
@Bobby Phelan: Its you and it always was!
@Bull Spite: best comment of the nite did you learn that bull in school.!! Is it not past ypur bed time you should get off your mammys computer now.
I don’t even know who the flock Claire Byrne is… her polls do not speak for the country.
@john Appleseed: A lot of people on the the Journal have been trying to speak for the Country for a long time now so why the surprise ?
History will show that he was one of our best taoisigh
@kevin: history will show him up to be an inept waster up to his ears in corruption!!Kind of already does tbh
I don’t comment very often but why has this Muppet not resigned yet.
Everybody said the same about Charlie, Bertie and Cowen.We’re great at electing corrupt/inept politicians, sticking up for paedophile priests, blaming the EU for our virtual bankruptcy…Nothing to do with us,,,,
Well they keep telling us how lucky we are to have him, Simon and Leo themselves have said what a wonderful job he is doing! It seems churlish to rebuff his altruistic selfless generous gesture in offering his services for the next 10 yes!
Wish he would go but to be fair staying until after the late April summit on Brexit is really important.
Be interesting if the negotiations once completed,mean treaty change..it might mean a referendum in Ireland…how many times will we vote next time?
Ireland’s greatest statesman since Éamon de Valera.
@Lou E Thorough:  Yes…and Dev was born near Trump, another fine man….
He is good but he is no Bono….
@Lou E Thorough: There is nothing statesman like with Enda Kenny. When he took office in 2011 he promised a five point plan for Irelands growth, but failed to spell out what this meant apart from more austerity and giving tax breaks to big companies. Since then we have witnesed rural Ireland become depopulated and a rise in emigration of our young people.We have witnessed the closure of banks, post offices and garda barracks. We see more homeless people begging on the streets and filth on our streets and in the countryside. The sooner Kenny retires and lets someone else take over the better for everyone.
“Enda Kenny’s DECISION to invite US President Donald Trump to Ireland is supported by a majority of Irish people”. So 63% of just the one thousand people that were consulted agreed and that’s indicative of the national opinion? 55% of those asked are apparently from Leinster and under the age of 44 too. Surely the “majority of Irish people” would only be applicable if the 63% referred to the four and a half – plus million people in the population being asked?. I’m tempted to say “fake news” and #sad but it does seem to be both to be fair.
@The Unknown Souldier:Not sure you understand what an opinion poll is.
Yeah for sure Kenny has the support of his minions and no more,the man is an embarrassment to the people of Ireland and at this stage he is like a bad smell that won’t disappear into the breeze quick enough.
He does not represent me
Fake news
Yep.  I had a 2nd row seat.
Enda should be sacked for the McCabe fiasco disgraceful that man is still in government.
@Bobby Phelan: Even though we elected him and his party? It took years to get rid of Charlie – after a lot more spaghetti hit the fan..
@Fank Pulman: Credit where its due, 3 out of 4 people who showed up to vote did not vote for enda kenny or his party.
@The Risen: abolish PR then – TR? We moan about every T-shock, and say we didn’t elect Charlie, Bertie, Cowen, Kenny etc. It certainly wasn’t anything to do with us – or our virtual bankruptcy…
@Fank Pulman: sorry mate we did not eject him
@Jonathan Yeo: who then – the martians?
@Fank Pulman: Just correcting your statement. Also, ‘we’ did not elect enda kenny as taoiseach. That was done by TDs in the dail. after failing to be chosen 3 times, and only got in on the 4th go after a backroom deal with FF.
@The Risen: we elected fg ad largest party in state ergo we elected EK as Taoiseach. SF ran from power, as they always do.
@The Risen: we elected the TDs – and the system did the rest, one that successive parties have used for years. Abolish our systems then? First pass the post maybe – we continue to blame everyone, except ourselves…
@Fank Pulman: Who’s the “we” exactly?  Did you lie to the Dail as Kenny and Fitzgerald did in an attempt to cover their knowledge of the McCabe vendetta? Did you vote to evict families on to the streets to enrich the vulture funds? Did you make the “hard decisions” to have children with scoliosis twisted spines wait in agony so that the bondholders don’t suffer the slightest twinge for their failed gambles?
@Fank Pulman: If you want to contest that the vast majority of voters not choosing enda kenny or his party is the same as ‘we’ electing him taoiseach, you are more than welcome to do so. I’m happy enough to let the common sense of people reading your posts to make their own minds up.Like they did on polling day, when three quarters of voters did not choose him or his party.
@Benjy Mooney: So Ben (we – the electorate) who put these clowns in power are blameless?
@Fank Pulman:  Did you vote for FG, FF, Labour or any bogus Independents? Democracy is not possible without an informed electorate which is why the ruling class expend huge resources in keeping the majority completely misinformed as to the nature of the system that exploits them.
@Fank Pulman: he was elected my FF dodgy dealHe went from 90 seats to 25And his in Mayo was proven on Facebook to be fixedAt 55 my life is finished By this traitor
@Benjy Mooney: NEVER our fault…ruling class (!), EU, RC church, FF/FG/SF etc. But NOT us…the electorate…
@Fank Pulman: Talk about missing the point. 3 out of 4 people did not vote for FG, so it is more accurate to say the electorate can state ‘it is not our fault’ than ‘we elected this government’. In 2011 it was even more valid when FG did a u turn on standing up to eurpoe on the banking debt. Anyone who voted FG on that basis was quite entitled to state ‘I did not vote for this’.
@Fank Pulman: You knock yourself out taking the blame if you wish. But don’t presume to speak for the rest of us.
@Benjy Mooney: communism then – for you and TR.  Or an alternative? Maybe…
@The Risen: jamming is back! Mincing his words. If Gerry Adams was Taoiseach he would be fine with the system. Another idiotic account from the For connolly / were jamming bot.
@Alan Brogan: FG is a minority government, supported by “Independents” and FF.Enda Kenny was chosen by a vote in the Dail. His government was rejected by the electorate.
So much for bowing out gracefully after leading so disgracefully.
@The Risen: so assume you have no faith in any other FG potential leader?l given that he played them like saps? Leave Kenny or a GE
Kenny won’t give up the gravy. he’s got too used to it. His priorities what a joke. since when did he or FG ever care about Northern Ireland. As for Brexit Kennys main interest is serving the European Union’s interest that’s where his next gravy is coming from.
Two peas out of the same pod ,both individuals put themselves first, their party second, their friends third and the country whenever it suits them and their agenda.They are without shame!
@Paul Mc:  They don’t serve the country and never have. Their role is to protect the interests of big capital and they have served the elite loyally since independence. Ditto for FF
Simon would be the Sutherland/Bilderberg choice for T-shock.
Nothing like self interest Mr Noonan? But sadly FG will bow to the man who chased a woman into her grave while minister for health with threats. Statesman my
@Kerry Blake: Kenny is Noonan’s protector, he makes sure he’s unaccountable for his crimes against humanity.
@Kerry Blake: how old is nonage again? i know its a shocking figure. the man knows no end to mischief.
@Paudi Onail: noonana i meant, noonama nonage forage.
Ends gazumped Simon and Leo again … They can’t get rid of him ☺
If you haven’t updated your app, the lack of red thumbs is bizarre…
@J M Raw: yes, people have to make points now!
@J M Raw: app updates auto over wifi
@Noel: mine didn’t.
@J M Raw: @J M Raw: think thats bizarre, well this… though not new for many sites, what happened to their mobile responsive site? it happened today and got a pop up window asking me “do you want to install our app?” it then scaled way down to a normal non mobile site. very odd, forcing it on ye. i certainly won’t be using their app.
Enda will be around for a very long time more…
@Fank Pulman: no other man in Ireland would have taken medical cards from children with cancer and Downe syndrome only this S bag
@Jonathan Yeo: Micheal Noonan would also love taking the “hard decisions ” like that. FG and FF have protected the elites at the expense of the majority since the foundation of the state.
@Jonathan Yeo: almost 40% of people have medical cards. Lack of leadership big time here. Time to take them off people not contributing to society
@lavbeer: Like bankers and bankrupt developers? There’s a few others that can be mentioned.There’s no society anymore, there’s an economy, in fact there’s two economies in the country.
@Fank Pulman: Kenny certainly looking good for a “political corpse”
@Adrian:  most people wish he was a real corpse.
@Fank Pulman: mega red thumb
Why wouldn’t noonan want him to stay.Hes safe as long as Kenny is leader regarding his Nama dealings.
Is there any state assets left for Noonan to gift to the carpet baggers?I suppose there must be if Noonan wants Kenny to hang onto the summer.
Enda should be gone long ago.
Our Lack of Housing Minister is lying………
@Gus Sheridan: He has been in that job a year to be fair to him. You can’t just have houses appearing. Maybe we need to people to stay in the family home till they can afford to support themselves? Just a thought. The politics of no is easy
@lavbeer: You really love making excuses for these parasites.
@Dave Doyle: I don’t actually Dave. Just asking a question. You’re the lad in Bulgaria? Are houses handed out over there? Getting pregnant was a life style choice and now there isn’t enough houses. Most of us work hard to pay for our kids _ if the proverbial hits the fan I bunk in with my parents or do I expect taxpayers to pay for me?
@lavbeer: Ask a real question, not a neo-liberal  excuse for not building social housing.The real parasites are at the top of the heap in this cesspool of corruption.
@lavbeer: Apartments are handed out to those in need, not houses. There’s not much housing as such, most are Eastern European bloc style housing.No FG/FF style government would last p*ssing time here, there would be a revolution if governments here had the stench of corruption off them that FG/FF have.
@Dave Doyle: The FF/FF style government is conti
…. continually returned so the we get the government we deserve statement rings through. So how does it compare to Ireland in terms of what you have to pay in? Orwhat
Coveney confirms with his own mouth he is not leadership material like Leo already has done. Who wants a leader with no ambition?
Some of them want the top job so badly, but are afraid of sticking there necks out. Politicians!
@James G Mullins: they might get the carpet pulled from under them by end of summer so they might as well go for it, to do or not to do.
So looks like Enda is going to get a free pass all because he read a speech someone else wrote for him and he’s going to attend a meeting that he’s obliged under his job title to attend, fair play to ya Enda boy……….Lest not we forget the scandal, corruption, shady deals, back handers, brown envelopes, jobs for the boys, forget about the homeless, the sick, forget your neighbour and our country attitude that has surrounded this man (if you could call him that) since his first day in office. Do not be fooled because the rest of his cronies would not support a motion of no confidence, I would bet that the vast majority of this population feels differently.
@Gazza Lazza: its interesting how the world are appropriating it with themselves, even though his message is only about irish immigrants. he was too scared to go full throttle, he looked so nervous reading those lines, give or take not knowing the lines very well because he didn’t write them himself! he’s some joke, a typical gombeen who spoofs it.
John Bruton served the shortest reign as taoiseach. Whoever takes over from Kenny will create a new record
Neither kenny or noonan have done anything to warrant either of them staying on. In fact their incompetence says neither of them should be in their jobs in the first place. But they’ll do whatever they can to stay on because they have nothing when they leave, no successful businesses to go back to and they’ll go back to being nobody’s when they leave. Why? Because they never really achieved anything in the first place. They’re a waste of space in their jobs.
Nobody will bat an eyelid at these useless shisters when they’re gone. They both had jobs that had massive potential to make themselves highly respected individuals in irish history. Instead kenny ended up making a circus of the role of taoiseach with his numerous controversarys and hiding when questions needed answers not to mention his stupid attempts to explain mccabe when he had no other choice and had to. And noonan, could have been the guy who steered ireland out of recession, instead we still have a hugely dysfunctional economy with leprechaun economics and tax haven status. Two donkeys who reduced what should be prestigious jobs down to the shambolic levels of incompetence they operate at.
Grow a pair of spuds Simon & Leo playing into FF hands now !
There will be no seat at cabinet for Noonan when Kenny goes ..would it be cynical to suggest this is why he wants enda to stay
Kenny gets away lightly with our media,with his lies and the corruption in Nama he could be in jail in other countries.
Do for nothings from a do for nothing Dail…
Who will thejournal pillory after Enda goes? Seems like we’ve hardly seen anyone else slated in the past 6 years.
@Tom the Bomb: because the useless, lying, self-serving gombeen deserves to be slated!
The rats still trying to stay on the ship till it hits the rocks at the next election. Disgraceful, unwanted,no integrity , welcome to politics, the Irish way.
Of course he wants Kenny to stay on, once Kenny is gone Noonan won’t be a senior figure after the reshuffle, self-serving soundbites from the dinosaur
Enda Kenny’s performance in the US wowed America. If he was an American citizen Enda could surf that wave all the way to the White House and guarantee another Republican presidency following Donald Trump.There’s an old saying ‘You’ll never miss your Taoiseach till he’s gone’In Enda’s case this is true beyond a shadow of  doubt.
@Lou E Thorough: he would be missed like a serious illness. Edna is a cancer to the Irish people.
Mistakes are fine – they can be condoned and forgiven as we all make them. Enda hasn’t made mistakes – he has lied through his teeth to protect himself. He has showed himself to be a spineless coward who has turned on his own people to ingratiate himself to Merkel et al.The media have allowed the discussion to change to the leadership contest when realistically he, Frances and Nóirín should have had the dignity to resign on the spot over the shameful treatment of McCabe.
@Sean C: where was his leadership when DOB had the Dail and all news outlets (excluding Broadsheet.ie) gagged for a few days? He was nowhere to be seen.Mickey Mouse could of been the leader of Fine Gael in 2011 and they would of gotten in. He is only the there now because Fianna Fail say so.Enda will be taken down a peg this week and will be gone by Easter.
I sigh in disbelief this morning at the news that Enda is staying on.Why is this acceptable by the media and public?This government was elected by people in the hope they would return fairness to society after the Bank collapse and bail out.They had a mandate to cut & slice through what ever BS was going on at the time and could have had the most positive impact of any government had they chosen to.Still no banking governance or accountability, Still none of our natural resources returned secured or taxed correctly, still thousands of people being pursued for property that has been paid for by the state and being made homeless, general and mental health service worse than ever, homeless crises worse than ever, lowest ever spending on infrastructure, lowest ever spending on housing generally, Billions wasted on trying to ram Irish water upon us, Corporations defended against paying tax due yet small indigenous businesses consistently harassed and threatened by rev sherrif for small amounts.Insurance costs go through the roof with out question.Motor tax unjustly applied to favour the well off, no public transport worth talking about.Corruption in Policing more obvious  than any time in the past yet no accountability.Have they achieved anything in ten years?Please don’t respond saying the economy has recovered because that wasn’t hard given the level it fell to and has been largely due to the sacrifices of our work force and the strength of our business people
What ever happened to his contract to the Irish people and an end of cronyism? The man created more jobs for his buddies than any previous leader.The man is a charleton and a seller of delusions unfortunately.
@Paul Mc: when he is finally dumped on the scrapheap all his nominated friends should be dumped with him, his and their pensions should be withdrawn and only one pension be allowed per person with a maximum of about 70000….
@Paul Mc: Hey Paul, you mention ” more jobs for buddies than any previous leader” … can you elaborate please? Anyone can throw baseless accusations, id be interested to hear more if its true.. Id be surprised if anyone were beyond CJH for such a thing
The media are without a shadow of a doubt letting him off the hook. They’ve learnt nothing.The hypocrisy of his speech in the US was ignored by the media here.Not a Trump fan but I think it’s not right that he should be laughed at in the media here for using an Irish proverb no one here has ever heard, yet Kenny states that St. Patrick is the patron saint of immigrants (again no Irish person has ever known) and his speech is fawned over.Direct Provisioning, rendition flights, one of lowest acceptance of refugees etc etc. It is really falling. And the public here fall for it.
@Peter McGlynn: *falling = galling
Screwed a nation..
fake news again dob and the crooked media trying to keep Kenny in power,  more of the country has to be  giving away.
Just go already Kenny! You’ve been a terrible let down.
Kenny will stay as long as he wants. The night of the rubber knives proved that no one in FG has what it takes to dethrone him.
He is not a leader. He fluked his way into daddy’s seat 40 years ago and has done nothing noteworthy since. 40 years hanging around, dodging difficult questions and getting paid millions for it.  A complete fraud
And the FF and FG prcks that keep him in power are no better
Enda Kenny will not go.  He will be pushed out the door, screaming and kicking, and is likely to cause lasting damage to the party in the process.  Any chance for a dignified transition has been lost.  It’s going to be a cat fight.
He will stay until he resigns. Not one person in FG have the guts to openly challenge him in a leadership bid
It says something about those who wish to succeed him that they cannot dispose of a lying lame duck leader now.
A few mistakes?It’s constant foot in mouth with Walter Mitty and his additional fantasy yarns!
There are several inaccuracies in this article – the most glaring of which states that Kenny has served 2 consecutive terms as Taoiseach. He is less than a year into his 2nd term as Taoiseach. I hope Farrell, Deering and all the others who want Kenny gone will put down a no confidence motion without delay should Kenny fail to outline his plans for departure (as he promised) this week
I can’t even be bothered to read the name of whoever wrote this crap. But it’s pretty sure taking Edna’s side. If he gets the job in Europe after his Putinesque disregard for accountability ( formerly one of his favourite words) It will be quite obvious that he had never represented any Irish person to the best of his ability. Maurice McCabe and his family are the first he’s publicly let down but how many more are in the background that we know nothing about? He should be at home with the one one who leads him from behind. We all know power can corrupt and it takes a strong leader to avoid such corruption but in Edna’s case it’s about keeping him in power at any cost. But being dishonest is blatantly rewarded and I think Edna is the lowest of the low. Apologies if this makes little sense but I am so mad I can barely think straight
@Mary Murphy: Mary it makes sense. I’ll put it more bluntly, the man is spineless, a liar and a fantasist, an utter embarasment.
Loads could be said – but the short version is that it’s got way beyond an unfunny joke now for Fine Gael. Their continued PR excuses while Enda Kenny continues to lead them all on a merry delay dance, further exposes their complete ineptness to get a handle on the whole situation.If they cannot handle one man – how can they handle the country?
This says it all:https://goo.gl/HnzEoZThe current state of FG and their continuing rolling excuses while none of them have the guts do to what’s right yet again!
Kenny is a joke of a politician. In any similar role on any other sector, he wouldn’t have survived for days. And his leading by example, haha, understand the people and their needs, he went into hiding any time he had to answer something, demonstrate integrity, certainly not in the dail, that mccabe answer thing was a circus, be diplomatic, he sold out his own people to the eu and capitalists, more like donkey than charming and as he’s shown so often, he doesn’t know the meaning of strategic.
Lies are not mistakes  ,,Enda come clean …out..out..out..
His pension should be docked for every mistake he made
The biggest problem I have with Enda is his continuing shows his arrogance & his failure to listen to what public want which is for him to stand down & let someone else take over . He will continue to take Fine Gael down as long as they let him stay . But finegael will have a problem when he goes as confidence in new leader could take a bit to gain
Get rid of this limp fool!!
collusion with garda corruption and pussyfooting around with the a catholic church? hardly mistakes
The biggest traitor this country has ever had !!OMG can’t wait to see the back of himThe Atlanta protest had it spot on the man ignoring the poorTotal s bag in my eyes
Enda became leader of fg when nobody else wanted it.he has very,very,few of the requirements to be a proper leader.
Another bullshIt article, “mistakes” my arse. Another example of Ireland not having a proper media just a bunch of arsekissing sycophants clammer for a pat on the head somewhere along the line. A cowardly media, is no media at all.
Not one mention of why he is being made stand down… Corruption in the Garda, corruption by his finance Minister. He is in charge of a government that accused an honest citizen of child abuse – that is why he is going, the workload has zero to do with it.
@Gulliver Foyle: when did the goverment accuse anyone of child abuse, I can only imagine the number of red thumbs I’d get for asking this but now that they are gone scew it…. show me where the goverment accused him of child abuse
@Paddy: i much prefer this new comments format. The red/green thumbs were childish, predictable and boring.
@Paddy: this headline is clickbait for the shinner zombies and the aaa ,pbp,loopers
!@ Paddy. Yeah the Tusla report into Maurice Mc Cabe was REALLY just a clerical error and there never REALLY was a concerted campaign to malign him.   Some people will actually swallow whatever claptrap is fed to them!!!!!
The Gardai are accountable to minister of justice who is accountable to the Taoiseach so by default this government accused one of its citizens/employees/civil servants of been a sexual predator
@paddy you have 8 red thumbs….just for the record.
@tomeenoldstock: The new format suits Political Parties. They have the time to write and post comments – which is what you have to do now if you disagree with a comment. Ordinary people however do not. So expect less comments and a greater proportion from political parties and a decline in the Google Play rating for this APP. Remember people only used this site for the comments section – which was quite brilliant. Expect also less “likes” on comments as it takes too long to read the posts with all the whitespace and being hidden behind a click button.The total number of comments and likes will drop significantly but I’m not sure jounal.ie cares as they will be well aware of the impact I’m sure.
@Paddy:  the garda management got tusla a state agency to smear whistleblowers
You’re right, we don’t know what kenny didn’t know or when he didn’t know it. Is launching a smear campaign which coincided with a clerical error sized accusation of child rape against a whistleblower even illegal?
@gregory: Totally agree. This format is just bad. Not easy on the eye, not difficult, but uninteresting to navigate around, sanitised by all the white space, spidery font, threads broken up by the “click for replies” button. I see many “friends” and “foes” gone.The whole Journal thing was lively, yes it had its trolls, it’s party faithful on all sides, the dissenters, it also had clever clued in people. I see many of them have left. Would love to know where they’ve gone.
@paddy up to 18 red thumbs your IQ probably
Well at least 57% of people have a grasp on reality.
@robert lester: Lets have a referendum, Stay or Go.Wait a minute wasn’t that what the Brexit question asked the British electorate.Enda should just do the decent thing and go quietly if this is what FG want.
It’s very simple. 40 years in government and achieved nothing. He is a liar, traitor,hypocrite, and a judas goat. He has no credibility  This man only represents himself.
@Sam: if he simply achieved nothing then we could be pleased. But he has sold any assets that belonged to the Irish public, he has created a homelessness crisis, created record waiting lists and patients on trolley in all hospitals. Sold off nama properties of a fraction of their value. Wasted billions of public money on Irish water, a lot of which ended up in his master dobs pocket. He rolled over for the e.u and let them tickle his belly while he handed over Irish peoples money while giving himself a rise. That’s only the tip of the iceberg.
If Enda doesn’t step down, Fine Gael will continue to lose support so I think he should stay on indefinitely.
@Sam:I get it. You don’t like him. Why use the vitriolic words? Judas Goat.He is the leader of this country and doesn’t deserve that.Nobody does.
If there is too much on his plate then it’s all the more reason for him to go. A new leader would/should have a better perspective without the shackles of old policies to hold him/her back.
@Sloop John G: He’s just showing contempt for his own Party. I bet FF and others would love him to stay on.Best of all possible outcomes for when they decide to pull the plug.Doesn’t seem to bother Enda though.
Conned them all. Going nowhere soon… Mehole in stitches laughing at FG..
lol. censorship on the thread. what a lapdog the journal is.
Not a fan of his but the two possible replacements are even worse to be honest. Also if they want rid they should have be courage to launch a coup and not just wait for him to step down, that is if they think they’re leaders after all. But neither of them are leaders just opportunists.
@Karl: Bang on. Ireland has potential to get screwed in these brexit discussions . Mehole will be in power for the detailed discussion. No benefit for putting laurel or hardy in.
@lavbeer: I’d be happy enough for now if they’d just get rid of Noonan
@jane: Noonan should be in prison.
@jane: If it was/included a public flogging it would go to repaying us for what this parasite has done to us.  The man who over saw our going broke is a very rich man indeed,  who managed to was in charge of our finances has done very well for himself from his personal dealings indeed.
Let him stay and drag FG down to labour party level..
I think the poll is being manipulated by FG bots! Who in their right mind could think Enda is capable of handling brexit negotiations? He, in my opinion, has never properly represented the Irish people (just his elitist buddies)…
@ xor. That is exactly the point, Enda is the puppet for his neo liberal cronies and the perfect man to be controlled by them and wallow in the head patting gratitude they pay him. He hasnt the brains to know differently, which makes himm perfect for them. There is NO one in FG who would be any better for the people of this state either.
Time to go lol shouldn’t be Taoiseach he was voted out by the people
Hmm, its never too soon to lose the wrong person for the job, but I am enjoying seeing him drag a party which has decimated the most vulnerable down with his ego.
With no red thumbs this comment section is poxy. Think I am done with the journal
@Paul P O’Sullivan: great news p.p
@Paul P O’Sullivan: Agree It is absolute rubbish now. Downrate on Google Play like many have done over the last few days
He is an embarrassment and completely talentless. No abilities other than an ability to lie. We have an array of self serving  incompetents in the Dail aside from him… Help us Jeebus…
Did kenny ever have anything on his plate? Totally useless politician.
FG made a mess of the Irish water PH was the idiot charged with this but was on Kenny watch apart from this Kenny is the only leader who will try his best. You might disagree with me .
@Alan Scott: Please stop licking IndaKinny’s you-know-what as you keep defending him here too much for our liking…
@Alan Scott: “Kenny is the only leader who will try his best.”My 3 year old tries her best to help in the kitchen.
@John Flanagan: First of all I do not support FG just to say I had a long look at the rest of the party’s who would try for the best deal on Brexit could not come up with any in FF SF and so on I am going on the old saying the Devil you know is better than the one you dont . John I would ask you not to Jump to far when replying to a post.
Ridiculous. FG have already stated that they will merely negotiate with the UK as one of the remaining european states. Kenny will be looking for a  good deal for europe, no matter the negative consequences for the Irish people.
@Alan Scott: Who picked horrible Hogan, for the job and a General is only as good as his soldiers.
@Alan Scott: { Kenny is the only leader who will try his best. You might disagree with me ]  Yes Alan you’re right, I do disagree with you.
and instant thumbs up. terrible place. and time to leave for good, methinks.
@Living The Laws: won’t be missed bye now!
Typical.
Can we dump his party along with him?
@Kerry Blake: Into the sewage system?
They say in a democracy the people get the Govt they deserve! However a political party that prefers, subterfuge, spin and manipulation to policy, debate and consensus, the inoffensive mediocre cute hoor will surely rise! The spineless who fawn over the false leader with false platitudes cut rods for their own backs with each falsehood! They each deserve one another! We do not deserve them let’s have a real poll #GE2017
Fg have stood over corruption for far to long they all need to go end of accusing a guard of child abuse is not good enough any more the corruption has to stop or it will further destroy this state.say no to corruption and yes for accountability.
There still no getting rid of this habitual liar and storyteller.There’s certainly no one in the Fine Gael party to get rid of him.…And if they can’t even do that – why the hell should they inspire confidence!
He’s like a wart you just can’t get rid of.
@Seth Cheffetz: How to get a head in… Politics. Pity that is not a film as well lol.
Seriously?! 100%?? Maybe the polls will show that next time round…….
He should be in jail for overseeing the nama corruption and allowing noonan to bolster his own bond portfolio at the taxpayers expense,a snake of a man at best.
Too much on his plate? Kenny’s only concern s keeping his nose in the trough! It’s telling that the only time this disgusting individual shows any backbone, balls or political nous is whenever he feels he might be dragged away from the goodies. And don’t give me any guff about ‘brexit’ or ‘undocumented Irish in the states’; those issues, and many more (homelessness, evictions) are crucial to scores of Irish men and women, but Kenny’s (non)engagement will not be altered one whit by any replacement from the ranks of the Irish establishment. He’s worse than a nobody, he’s a stuffed shirt standing in for a nobody!
@Michael Bride: So Well said Michael, He should have gone long ago, Pathethic excuse for a man
He is an absolute nob. Going over to America to meet a man he called a racist and that he needed to change his ways. What an absolute lapdog he is. The two of them deserve eachother and trump has been invited over here! Let’s see how that goes Enda you nob!
He hasn’t achieved world peace yet …. he’ll stay until he does ….
@Eamonn Magrath: more to the point –  Enda hasn’t achieved or blocked a Re-United Ireland yet …. he’ll stay until he does ….
These journal polls are now touching waterford whispers levels of humour
Don’t be daft. The reason why Kenny doesn’t want to announce when he will step down is because he loves power, adores the limelight, and hates the idea of not being at the centre of attention. It has sweet ‘Fanny Adams’ to do with Brexit or Northern Ireland or the state of affairs in China … it’s all about himself, his over-sized ego and love of power.
I like Enda Kenny. Better, way way better than any of the last Taoisigh. He is decent, calm, measured and doesn’t run with any builder drinking buddies or banking golf buddies who used politicians to their own greedy end for decades. He has always represented himself and his country well abroad. No, he isn’t a great big personality. He is not a pinstripe wearing conman. And yes, he made mistakes. He also didn’t reverse quickly enough from other governments mistakes ( water charges and homeless scandal). But looking at the standard of Taoiseach we have had over the past 25 years.. he is up there with the best of them
@Lisa Callanan: I could not agree with all of your post  except to say he is the right man in my view to take on the British  in the talks on Brexit like the guys who did reply to me they did not offer any alternative straight into the red and full stop. Typical of the people on the Journal .
“Poll: Do you think Enda Kenny has far too much on his plate to be vacating his position?”Is that statemen just B…S… or is it a joke.
What has Brexit got to do with us, all that can effect us is the fallout and not the process. So Enda can’t do anything but he like us to believe he can, an excuse to hang on for another 2 years?
Not a great supporter of Enda and FG but he is the only leader òf any party who will get the best deal on Brexit
@Alan Scott:Probably be the same deal he got on the bailout..only exists in his head..
Alan Scott. Leader. That man couldn’t lead a horse to water.
@Kieran OKeeffe: He wasn’t involved in any way in the bailout.
@ray.farrelly: he doesnt need to Ray he’s intelligent enough to know a horse can find her own way !!
Kevin Ryan. You are not intelligent either.who said the the horse was a mare. Are you sexist.
No-one is too important to be fired.
This new format is both politically correct (Indo) rubbish and boring and does not publically show up ar*ewholes  for what they are AND that can include me as well be times
40 years in Leinster House and has to have speech writer ,He has turned out to be gormless useless leader , Cant give a straight answer , Waiting for the “big ” job to come up in the E.U. for been a lapdog ,and none of his successors has the guts to get rid of him ,says a lot for them Hope he drags it out and tears the Fine Gael party asunder Good riddance at least the village or town will have its idiot back
From now on I’m going  to call him Enda Mugabe. As an FG voter I never rated Enda, inherited his seat, never has any job in all of his years in the Dail until he becomes Taoiseach, everything his says’ could have been written by Han Christian Anderson, he’s about as intellectual as Joe Jacob and packs a king size jar of Vaseline every time he leaves this country for his comfort after meeting any other world leader.Not only his government but successive of our representatives have thrown the electorate of our country under a bus for the benefit of banks and the EU. We don’t have democracy here, we live in a plutocracy with all of the corruption that goes along with it.Enda should go and given a choice we should be ridding ourselves of all of these political dynasties that have way too much influence in our parliment. I would suggest that the electorate only vote for candidates who have absolutely no current or former Dail relatives in the next election as a commencement to reforming our still corrupt system.
What a stupid question, its as if you think those issues actually matter to him. That said, he knows better than anyone the calibre of the people that he is up against, and that they will be too chicken to stand up and challenge him directly.
Why do politicians like Kenny always loose  the run of the selves and think that their indispensable ? It must be the swollen head syndrome yet again !? Time to sling Enda, and take Noonan with you.
THIS MAN NEEDS TO STEP DOWN ..NOW
Go now you thundering fool
That the blueshirts haven’t the balls to oust the most incompetent, fantasising liar that has ever had the office of Taoiseach  (and that’s saying something ) sums up what a pathetic shower they are. Mind you, the two ginnets that they are choosing between are even worse, so he may not be our worst Taoiseach for much longer!
@Noel Gallagher: bullshit
Vote red thumbs back please.
The contenders for the job now look like bigger Morons than him if that’s possible . He’s taking the psis
Looks like a right…Curry any one?
Mr Kenny is right to stay on until the N.I Assembly situation is sorted. Also he should stay until after the Brexit is triggered.
Edna just loves the trappings of power. Get gone you fool. Sick of your shenanigans at this stage.
He should be gone he is not a leader he’s only trying  make a  name for himself
Who would want to be a FINE GAEL backbencher now
Let’s invite Christine lagarde instead and give her and junket Junkers 85 billion instead.At least this man hasn’t bankrupted this little rotten banana republic and could be the best help we will ever get not like the Fianna Fáil failed gombeens and the rest of the rabble in the Dail.
@John Dillon: Seismic shift and this is not our debt Enda the best help we can get? This country is truly up the creek if so……
I think Enda is an idiot who should have stepped down years ago
Comr on ye champagne socialists and shinner bots !!!!!
He should be gone long ago he lost the General election over a year ago he far too importance
I just think that he should stand up to those whipper snappers and Bullshite.s who think that they know everything, far too arrogant they are.
Let’s give credit where credit is due; The Taoiseach didn’t put a foot wrong all week in the US and did Ireland proud. Positivity all around, presenting Ireland as a beacon of light in a Europe beset with many challenges, including Brexit.The Donald was on his best behaviour and got a valuable lesson in international diplomacy from our Enda.‘Tis little wonder Enda is now having second thoughts about stepping down from leadership of FG, after successful US jaunt!Not a good idea for him to step down now IMHO, with crucial Brexit planning on the horizon. Ireland needs political stability more than ever for the next three years, so if Enda is up for it….let him continue on as Taoiseach to 2020. And FF needs to back him 100%, under current political arrangements amongst coalition partners.Ireland Inc’s interests are best served by maintaining the current political status quo.
@Rory J Leonard:You must be joking!!What sort of man takes medical cards from children with cancer and Downe syndromeCome on this is over the lineThis country is one of the richest countries in the worldWould selling ofOilFisheriesGoldLotteryEverything soldWake up to this dictatorship
@Jonathan Yeo: Kenny was great because people are so use to accepting low standards in this country. We love our low standards here in Ireland.
Seriously, kenny couldn’t direct a donkey never mind ireland. He’s done nothing in the last 6 years, why should we think he’s gonna start now. Official ireland with its lousy politicians and bankers is on a different planet to the real people of ireland. Kenny is a disgrace. This gov is a disgrace. Trump was merely entertaining kenny, nothing more. That made our clueless idiot taoiseach look good. Unfortunately it’ll make kenny even more deluded than he already is.
@Les Behan: I am thinking after reading ‘By any objective measure, Enda Kenny acquitted himself and the Irish people honourably’…O Mr. President you’re hurting me?
@Jonathan Yeo: your funny,well you made me smile
Loving “couldn’t direct a donkey” but in fairness he can ride a crisis. The article state about the Irish push factors for emigration but don’t the sound the same as every other country who has mass emigration.
Before we get into the now usual “Can I have my red thumb back” litany consider this.  In place of the red thumb all you need is one person who is willing to post a well thought out balanced post that follows the rules of posting which disagrees with the post or comment that you want to red thumb. You can then green thumb that, or you can make a coherent post yourself. Sure, just anonymously tapping on a red thumb is easier. But stop. Think. And then use those thoughts. Go on, you might surprise yourself.
@Damocles: but why get rid of them? I don’t understand the reason behind it.
@Damocles: Red Thumb
@Damocles: Your comment is horses***. New layout is awful. Is this what you mean?
@jane: sometimes the world changes. You can change with it or just rage against it in an ultimately futile manner. If you choose the latter you might find yourself being left behind as others grow.
@Toon Army: kinda hoping for a little more of a constructive argument but it’s a start. Well done.
@Damocles: why is there this assumption that change is always good…..it’s not. There is nothing wrong with ‘raging’ against change if that change is not for the better.
@jane: why get rid of them? Why is it such a big deal that they are gone? It’s just not a big deal!
@Damocles: A reply​ to my reply on your reply. If only there was an easy way to say I disagree at this point..
@jane: spot on
@jane: sometimes the change simply is. Is it better in this case to challenge people to voice the reasons for their disagreement or to let them just shout “No!”  If all the naysayers have to explain their naysaying it may be that they are saying nay for many different and actually opposing reasons. Would you prefer to be lumped in with others who disagree with the original point in ways different to your own or for your unique “no” to stand apart from them?
@Tony Canning: it’s not a big deal in the greater scheme of things Tony. There are a few reasons I liked the red and green thumbs,I don’t always have time to comment but I could give my opinion one way or another via the thumbssometimes I agreed with a comment and yet there would be an overwhelming red thumb count and that would make me think about my own opinions, not change them but consider themAnd most importantly it restored my faith in the country when Wally would get a massive red thumb count for calling a hard working small business owner a parasite
@jane: when someone acts the fool there’s no denying that it can be pretty satisfying to see the disapproval. However, by the same token when certain attitudes are displayed here there is obvious abuse of that too. What’s ruining the comments section these days is people moaning about the comments section.
@jane: where’s the red thumbs,  aggggghhhh!! I loved the red thumbs!When did this happen?Link please
@Jimmy jones: and its a red thumb from me too.  Still waiting for an explanation from the Journal as to why its removed, maybe the Maltese Migrant owns it now ?
@Gus Sheridan: you’re waiting for an explanation from a private company as to why they changed things? Really?
@Tony Canning: yes no doubt there were times on political stories that the thumbs were manipulated but it was so blatantly obvious it made no impact. For instance a comment against SF would get an overwhelming red thumb count (I’ve had many) but considering they have less than 14% support in the general public it was obvious it was a concerted effort on their behalf to make themselves look good. So does it matter?
@jane: so you agree then that red thumbs aren’t needed.
@Tony Canning: no i don’t but nice try. When the manipulation was obvious it made the thumbs irrelevant.
@jane: obvious isn’t objective. So the red thumbs aren’t irrelevant to all as they’re not obvious to all. Therefore red thumbs cause skews.It’s not the worst thing IMO. I don’t care about them either way really but the constant moaning on every story is worse than anything for now.The worst thing is the absence of the chance to expand all comments. Hopefully they’ve sorted paragraphing on phones too.
@Tony Canning: obviously they haven’t.
@jane: So you liked the red thumbs particularly when their outcomes reflected your own views? I have to say I agree with you generally on the red thumbs tho. I notice now that some people are still posting idiotic bordering on racist comments but there’s no way of telling how disliked such a comment is and therefore they can appear to have the same merit and approval as all the other comments. At the end of the day it’s only words and little red thumbs, are we really that sensitive that we have to mute people?
@An_Beal_Bocht: I gave the reasons above why I like the red thumbs. Sometimes it was because they were the complete opposite to my own views.
@Damocles:You’re asking the Red Thumb brigade to contribute coherent argument instead?Haha.Best of luck with that my friend.
@Tony Canning: yes they can cause skews. It I think on balance they were a good thing. I don’t think they caused enough of a skew to get rid of them.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: if the red thumb brigade can’t even provide a constructive argument as to why they need the red thumbs then their anti-intellectual position can be safely dismissed.
@Damocles: well I tried
@Damocles: The only good thing about the red thumbs was how it showed up the alt-right groupthink in action, even though they will maintain otherwise. The only real problem is multiple-user accounts though that’s probably par for the course everywhere, and anyway it’s always a great laugh when they mix themselves up! The thumbs, I agree with you there, are no substitute for content.
@Neil Mcdonough:Don’t forget the alt left/liberal clique on the Journal.
Well said Damocles. People losing their minds over the fact they can’t red thumb a comment. I just move on.
Is there something dodgy going on here? First getting rid of the red thumbs, followed by the story praising the gov. It’s like going to vote and being told there’s only the FG option on the ballot paper.
@Adrian: I think Damocles summed it up best. If you dont like or agree with a comment, explain why. Initially i thought it was shite too btw.
In the old format, people could decide whether the story was good or bad. With the new format, someone could decide to promote something unpopular and the only thing people will see is green thumbs. ie: we could get a bunch of articles from FG TDs promoting an unpopular gov, they’ll get green thumbs and they’ll be saying (and wrongly so), look at us, we’re very popular now.
Enda did well. It doesn’t fit with your agenda Adrian, but it’s a fact.
The fact is Ireland is inconsequential to trump so he merely entertained kenny. That just made kenny look good. I don’t think anybody should read into it very much. It’s one good performance aided tremendously by trump, against many other shambolic ones.
And I wouldn’t pay any attention to the eu people talking up his importance. That’s the rewards he’s getting for imposing mass austerity on ireland, bleeding the country dry, following the eu austerity policy. Irish people have seen the real kenny, the incompetence, the shambolic performances in the dail, the numerous controversarys his been allowed get away by just not answering questions, he’s been given free passes by the media in all of them. He’s a joke of a politician. He’s a disgrace, a poster boy of a sad, corrupt, official ireland, which is very different to the real ireland.
@Brinster: could they not have got Fionnuala a coat that fit ?
Enda Kenny represented the Irish people.? Did he? Did he represent you? He didn’t represent me.
@Christine Downey: Who would have represented you best?
@Christine Downey: like it not Enda Kenny is the elected Taoiseach of this country and he represents this country abroad. It may have escaped insular Ireland but Kenny is being praised in Britain and the US for taking Trump on in a strong but respectful way. He did a good job in the US this week.
@H0tt3rBank3r: You mean his speech writers did a good job this week
@H0tt3rBank3r: he is not elected by the people
@H0tt3rBank3r:
As this country is a parliamentary democracy and he was voted in by the people of this country, if you live in this country, then he represents you too!
@Brendan Cooney: He was voted in by the people of Mayo not the people of Ireland
@Christine Downey: answer the question Christine- who would you prefer to have represented you?
@Christine Downey:Get your own personal Taoiseach then.
@Brian O’Loughlin: going by that logic then no taoiseach , British PM, Canadian PM of any other leader of a parliament has been democratically elected. Of course he was elected by the people of mayo and also by the Dail so he was put there by the people. Please think before you type…
@H0tt3rBank3r: “It may have escaped insular Ireland but Kenny is being praised in Britain and the US for taking Trump on”Deluded!
@Christine Downey: You may wish that he didn’t represent you but Ireland is a republic and on trips like this he represents all citizens collectively.
Not My Taoiseach !LolNo , actually , I thought he did very well.Nice and neutral , as Ireland should be.The world needs Mediators and that should be our Role .
@Christine Downey: His job is to represent those who donate to his party and their interests and do what Merkel and the IMF tells him to do?
@Christine Downey: Take this democratic opportunity to explain why…..
Hate this new layout! Journal please go back to the old format.
@cp: change is your friend
https://youtu.be/3r4uxdNpjaU
There will always be dissident voices heard in the land, expressing opposition without alternatives, finding fault but never favor, perceiving gloom on every side and seeking influence without responsibility. JFK
Larry , Enda Kenny does not represent or stand for me.Get your facts right.Terrible fawning article , something I would expect from the brochure of a Young Fine Gael Ard Fheis.
@Diarmuid Doran:Every man is his own island.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Caymen, comes to mind lol.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: He went there one March after Paddy’s day but no one said why and that was a few years ago. Just after he got in first?
@Alois Irlmaier: We can all remember that…
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Usually at the end of an opinion piece it’s the norm to give a short bio on the author.I like to question things butty.
@Alois Irlmaier: “Eaten bread is soon forgotten ” Alois , another saying that Emmet might know.I remember that
@Diarmuid Doran: It is scary all the same?
Oh Larry of course Enda is you’re friend.  You are not Irish in the true sense, you have a job that seen by Enda as well connected which is something in less privileged enjoy.  Those of us who don’t work in the legal, medicine higher bracket etc do not Enda representing us nor never been connected with him,  most of us have targets for his austerity measures while rich people made hay during the hard times.
Read this recently re thumbs up only: anyone agree…Since users see the ‘thumbs up’ button as the symbol of approval, it makes them even more docile to follow what everyone else agrees with. The ‘thumbs up’ votes dictates what type of comments will get noticed. This tempts users to leave comments that resemble the most liked comment to get their comment noticed.This prevents people from leaving comments that offer a unique perspective. Instead, every other comment is either a witty remark or one that parrots how everyone else feels. The result is a group of people who think and feel the same.
This is why we have so much disillusionment with politics and why Trump became popular. Walking a tightrope is the opposite of straight talking.It’s the same issue people have with RTE giving sitting Taoiseach’s easy interviews “out of respect”.  Politicians need to be challenged at every turn, not put on a pedestal and given free reign to do whatever no matter.
What a crock of horseshit –  Enda did not acquit himself , Fawning over Trump with his fake Irish proverb and Pence with his  “top of the morning” was embarrassing and cringeworthy. To top it all Trump has been invited here .I am mortified that this village idiot is our Taoiseach.Angela Merkel stood up to him with dignity – refusing his initial handshake , and refusing to laugh at his wiretapping joke ,
@Jimmy jones: let us not forget the business my dignified President have in your country. Will Enda still try to be respectful to him when he visits Ireland after he gets ousted? I’ve been patiently waiting and giving the man a chance but every day seems more and more disappointing.
Muppet Show ☘️
When will the Irish people be rid of this Pathetic Sponge.
The Donald fell just short of giving Enda a pat on the head for being the best boy in the class. Good boy Enda
http://www.sinnfein.org/ardfheis/98ardfheis/je.html“Sinn Fein views with concern the increasing emergence of openly racist sentiment in Ireland. We support the calls for an immediate amnesty for all asylum seekers in the 26 counties. Sinn Fein will work for the achievement of the optimum position of NO RESTRICTION on immigration in Ireland.”“Considering this country’s history of emigration Sinn Fein deplores all attempts to limit the numbers of political and economic refugees into the country and supports the full integration of the aforementioned refugees into society”Something sinn fein don’t want their supporters to find out.
I wouldn’t call it honourable- the way he squirmed and wriggled when asked about his racist comments.
Let’s all forget what the spoofer said  re racism .Just because you say racist things , that does not make you a racist .The man is a proven spoofer with the brain capacity of a pea.
He played that trip very well. Now he needs to ride off into the sunset
https://www.facebook.com/barbadoscherry/posts/10211056507062769Why is this not in any media outletThis is the new North KoreaNo freedom of speech if it does not suit this disgraceful government
Now that the Journal has moved away from the red thumbs model, hopefully a new website will open up that can be the new cesspit of irrational negativity for the trolling shills. People are hurting out there now that their spleen venting forum has been taken away from them.
Enda isnt a very popular figure and I will never vote for him or his party but he has conducted himself very respectfully in the US. He obviously doesnt like Trump or his policies but has gone over there and met the president as the majority of the Irish population wanted him to do. The screams of the  feminazis and militant liberals ( mostly cyclists) were thankfully not enough to stop him going.
Well done Enda. I don;t know what you said, I don’t know what you did but the fact that you seem to have gotten up the noses of the snowflake generation so much is enough for me.I’m with you every step of the way.psthanks for giving Donald an open invitation to Ireland.Looking forward to Meltdown part Deux Irish style.
http://www.sinnfein.org/ardfheis/98ardfheis/je.html“Sinn Fein views with concern the increasing emergence of openly racist sentiment in Ireland. We support the calls for an immediate amnesty for all asylum seekers in the 26 counties. Sinn Fein will work for the achievement of the optimum position of NO RESTRICTION on immigration in Ireland.”“Considering this country’s history of emigration Sinn Fein deplores all attempts to limit the numbers of political and economic refugees into the country and supports the full integration of the aforementioned refugees into society”Something sinn fein are terrified of their supporters finding out.
Nevermind the silly president why not let irish from abroad vote in the general election!??
@Jimmy jones: what German ever laughs at a joke?j
Give credit where credit is due… Enda did well.
‘Fiola’, lol! How illiterate and ignorant is Trump?
Two comments by me this morning were deleted.  I caught them rigging the thumbs
Absolute cock and bull.He’s a traitor to the nation.A bully in a suit.A habitual storyteller.A national and international embarrassment.
@Unitedpeople: Attached to Merkel’s apron strings, don’t forget that?New taxes for the IMF and Merkel, who turned bank debt into tax payers debt or is that forgotten about?
Was like watching joey and chandler watching those two morons.
He did do well, but he is a far cry from redeeming himself.
Sometimes, there’s no substitute for experience, and Kenny very dexterously maneuvered his way through a tricky diplomatic swamp this week.Like him or not, he was the right person for the job this week.
I am so ashamed of NUI Galway, by any objective measure that is the most inaccurate and shockingly wrong article I have ever seen.  Shame on you dude, what planet are you on?   Eviction Vulture Ireland there is blood on the streets.
He was a roaring success and unashamedly brown nosed on behalf of the irish people. And the plamasing was reciprocated also. A great time for all
Great speech by An Taoiseach, in front of the world. Well written and well delivered. He has done Ireland proud.
@Alan Brogan: yes he has done a certain type of person proud. But not the many.
@Alan Brogan: but that’s exactly what it was a speech, nothing more nothing less, I’m sure President Trump is quite aware of the goings on on this little island of ours and how Enda is coming to the end of the road and not very popular at home at all, that’s how it seemed to me, a man of very little significance to him who jumped on the band wagon with the “racist” word, Trump doesn’t forget, he likes Ireland and has vested interests here and regardless of an invitation from Kenny or anyone else I’m sure we’ll be seeing him during his term…..
Well knock me down with a feather. Has Enda Kenny actually done something useful?
Enda Kenny is a national embarassment
I thought it was a good speech…
@Sifletch: It certainly was. Diplomatically it was a great speech. You dont go to the white house and condemn the man child in front of the worlds press. You remind him as kenny did that America has been seen for generations as a place of refuge. You remind him that millions have gone and made new lives there. You remind him of its awesome responsibility as a world power. For all those criticising Kenny, this is the best way to pressure Trump. Anyone expecting him to show up and start grandstanding about racism etc doesn’t understand much. He was right when he called Trump out here. He would have been wrong to start it in the white house. Kenny has left it late but he did us proud today.
Enda the snake. Not my Taoiseach.
@Ian Walsh: afraid he is. Whether you like it or not. That’s democracy
@Ian Walsh: I met a man with two bowls of shamrock who was going to give them to the troops guarding the A T M s !!!!!!!!!
Fair play to Kenny. Did a very good job when a lot of naysayers said he wouldn’t.
Anyone else notice how even though he was addressing Trump in his speech he never actually looked at him?!?, almost as if he wasn’t even in the room, awkward at best, Trump’s body language says it all…..
@Kate Flaherty: Yes did not once even glance at Trump….I suppose Enda really misses Obama…All of Enda’ s media advisers would also really dislike Trump so Enda is scared of offending the Irish media by being too friendly…..Still it was a good speech some good lines in it…
Plonker
With a little practice, it’s very easy to make a speech that’s been written for you.When Ends goes off script, we see him for what he is: a little man who is way out of his depth.
What about the “wretched refuse” being held in our Direct Provision Centres? Where’s the compassion for them? Have they not been deprived of liberty, opportunity and safety in their own countries? The hypocrisy around this issue insults us all.
@Cormac Behan: red thumb…..
@Cormac Behan: It was nothing to do about people here in direct provision centres,  it is Kenny showing his ignorance by addressing Illegal Irish migrants who are illegally in The US which in turn us open to be scammed by others who don’t respect the laws of countries they want to take advantage of them.
Compassion for people  who have lied through their teeth in order to stay here?  They’ve been refused and have no right to be here .
@Suzie Sunshine: great show of compassion!
@Jho Harris: clearly the irony was lost on you!
@Charles Alexander: I have no compassion for scammers,  sorry .
@Suzie Sunshine: in fairness, there were plenty of scammers in the country long before we ‘opened’ our doors to asylum seekers.
@Charles Alexander: correct but unfortunately we can’t deport our own ..
@Charles Alexandesee Most of us know about the home grown scammers but why allow more in to rip us off.  What the hell did you mean me not getting irony?  Do you see something amusing in having a stupid Taoiseach,  I certainly don’t find it endearing to see Kenny looking to make a case for illegal Irish in The US while we are by design stopped for getting rid of those who are illegal here,  a cohort that are most made welcome here by The Immigrant Council here.
@Jho Harris: the irony is that he wants Trump to deal with the issue concerning the undocumented Irish yet he avoids the issue concerning the undocumented in his own country.Did that really need explaining?
While I’m not a huge fan of Enda, I think this was his finest hour.  Delighted he had the balls to do this.
Whoever wrote Endas speech done a great job lol :-)
The long good bye?
@Gerry Fitz: gonna miss him that’s for sure ,rescued the country, but like that other great man churchill not really appreciated at home
His and our own record on migration is pitiful. The hypocrisy of this speech is galling. Direct Provisioning and one of the lowest rates of refugee admissions in europe is preposterous given our own history.
@Peter McGlynn: i agree more muslims is what we need,now that the catholic church is finished here.we need a real dominant religion and islam seems a good fit for ireland
Yeah, Scarlet, cause they have been doing in every other country. Good trolling.
@Dave Murray: not really good trolling .. too obvious!
Excellent well written speech enda, hope you stay on for another 5 year
@Patricia Butler: So you want the EU to continue with an unelected government of green communists?   Is that it?
Very nicely done! Enda Kenny for Taoiseach!! Oh wait…
Poor Ends must be peeved at the lack of coverage his visit garnered internationally, indeed it would seem Brian Dobbs was the only person covering this absurd trip, poor Brian couldn’t even get a recognisable guest to interview in what must have been an expensive excursion to Washington.God all mighty when this nonsense going to end. Just watching Merkels visit and my word the international press are in a frenzy. Good riddens enda, good riddance to mediocrity.
An impassioned speech it was but will it actually have any affect at all with the Irish illegals? Will Trump even give a crap what Kenny said?
@Cormac Behan: Very well put!
Ireland always speaks on a professional level…
Does he keep saying Predident..? Like with a d instead of an s?
Has Enda seen the amount of poor wretches sleeping on our streets right now? Instead of moaning to Trump he should be back here fixing the mess our  inept governments have made of the country.
what “lecture”?
I thought he pressed the case for Irish illegals in a balances way.  I did not see it as a lecture, but a plea and I think Trump understood.Where he did lecture in a disgusting way was on the glories of the EU.  A decrepit politically entity which is undemocratic has no place in a lecture to an elected president of the free world.
Very thoughtful gifts. Hope the secret service allow the perishables to be kept.
@Peter Cavey: Where was Mrs Trump???, Probably didn’t think it important enough to attend???
@Murf:As Mrs Trump hasn’t even moved into the White House, I think that attending the st Patrick’s day festivities is the least of don’s worries on that front.
Where’s my red thumb, I want it back please
@Charles Coughlan: get a small hammer and just hit it.
I cannot stand Enda Kenny.
@Jonny Irish: then sit down
Maybe he should help him judge a lovely ladies contest while here’s there.Better still stay there.
Really lovely gifts.
It would be nice if Enda would give the Irish voters a gift say sorting out the Corrupt Garda or Tuam Babie or ,NAMA ,Teachers ,.Transport,. Banks, waiting lists etc.etc.The list is endless rather than spending his time supporting the Irish Illegal immigrants in Americaor The Undocumented as he likes to call them
Of course the poor, penniless President couldn’t possibly afford to purchase his own!
Rumor has it the cufflinks were wired but they were a disaster.  The cufflinks and the inbuilt camera fell off Donald’s tiny hands as he was giving the finger to the old, the poor, the “illegal Irish” and the soon to be uninsured later in the day.
Carrickmacross lace is too good for that fembot.
Should have given him a pair of cling film underpants
And Kenny got a hat.? With a clover on it? That’s it?
Three leading Irish musicians said they turned down offers to perform at the White House St. Patrick’s Day.Billy McComiskey, Laura Byrne and Donna Long.Legends in their own kitchens the three of them.
Another long winded sermon from Fintan ‘Pontificus’ O’Toole.
NYT=FAKE NEWS
@Dilly Dong: Enda…pronounced  “ass hole”…
Not a fan of Enda (to put it mildly), but I think he played a blinder in the minefield of Trump’s Washington… and just may have done the Irish undocumented some service. Good job but it should be noted that people who say that Ireland holds no sway on international affairs are badly mistaken. The Taoiseach does have his bully pit and it should used more often to speak out on human rights issues more often.
@Louis Jacob: Irish people aren’t undocumented, they’re illegal.
@Louis Jacob: I detest Enda Kenny, to put it mildly, and I see no evidence of him ‘playing a blinder’ against Trump, in fact I suspect you have been blinded by a certain gloss meant to diminish Trump and happy to big up Kenny to do it. And that itself displays an ignorance of Irish politics, understandably, given our actual, very minor international role and the complete absence of any bully platform, for any taoiseach!
@Alan Brogan: Really? Is this the point you need to make?
@Michael Bride: Nonsense. Trump himself made a point of mentioning our peace keeping record. As far as human rights issues go, I would suggest that as an English speaking country, our leaders have a very loud voice.
@Louis Jacob: use of language is very important- white people cant be undocumented and brown illegal. Language and how it is used is how Trump and others spread their hate.
@Alan Brogan: I agree. But I would suggest that if we are talking semantics, they (and the brown people) would be classed as both.
@Michael Bride: The papers in the US seem to disagree with you.
@Louis Jacob: Louis, good fecking God, I can’t believe for one second you believe any of this nonsense. He did as he was told while he is over there and then asked beforehand permission off Trump to say a couple of things. Blind I say, blind…..
Have you actually listened to his speech, l cant stand the man but that was possibly the best speech of his career,
Undocumented is the official term knucklehead. Undocumented means illegal .
In the grander scheme of things Enda Kenny is of little significance to Donald Trump, I hope President Trump makes a visit to the Emerald Isle real soon if for nothing else than to upset Leo and the others, happy St Patrick’s day one and all wherever you are, be safe and enjoy!…..
Did Trump have a full Irish for his breakfast this morning ?  Seriously why so many Trump stories ?
Donald’s a popular guy and his soundbytes are always accompanied by the sound of KerChing!
Good speech from Kenny.
http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/lets-send-15000-migrants-a-month-to-europe-to-shock-them-turkish-interior-minister.aspx?pageID=238&nID=110926&NewsCatID=510
Well done kennys handlers for prepping him on the handshake timing,now hopefully he’ll fck off and retire to a German retirement home for the bewildered.
Has any newspaper printed the full text of the TEE-shack’s ‘lecture’ in the White House? Are there any rumours that Dr. Kenny is in line to be the next Provost of Trinity College? (as soon as he resigns as leader of FG, of course)
Lectured me AR/$, what about the reports of his absolute boredom with yesterday’s nonsense. Today is st. Patrick’s day, has anyone wondered why our Enda is not meeting Trump today? It’s called being irrelevant, Germany’s Prime Minister was pencilled in today, heavens above Trump would inconvenience Merkel, after all she appears to be the only European leader with BALLS.
Any chance Trump would keep Kenny over there?
Now if you knew how to find it and spoke to the right people and asked nicely, you may hear how the Taoiseach actually called Trump “President Bush” at one stage, which Trump ingored..
It seems President Trump gets a lot of bad press in Ireland, and that is sad. America loves Ireland. Let me just say this, as an American from NY: unless you come into this country and become associated with vicious gang violence, rape culture, beheadings, child brides, treating women like second-class citizens, plowing your car into crowds of innocent people, blowing up marathons, subway stations, government buildings & planes, shooting up gay night clubs and office Christmas parties and other sorts of anti-western mayhem & destruction,  then you’re not the kind of immigrant Americans are worried about…not even close.
@AMckenny: AND FYI: As far as press coverage of Kenny’s visit: It was very positive. Although hack organizations such as the NYT, TWJ, TWP & CNN ,NBC etc would like to spin it differently (like any other thing the president says or does). In other words, complete bullshit. It seems Europe is being fed only negatives about this administration.
@AMckenny: eh, that’s not at all what Trump’s plan for immigrants is. I think the M word he’s out to get is Mexicans
Enda rolled over and let Trump scratch his belly after swapping a bowl of weeds for another 12 months suckling ‘Murica’s’ financial tit.
I pretty much loathe Kenny, but in this one circumstance, I think you’re mistaken.
Well Kenny just jeopardised the St Patricks Day ritual between Ireland and the US,  who invites a guest to their nation only for the snake to turn around and stab the gracious host in the back.  Idiot.
Anybody who can read body language may say otherwise.
Enda was entitled to speak up of Irish people in the US,  I had no problem with that,  it was his support for the corrupt EU I hated.
My stomach turns every time I see Kenny on TV..  Why am i so like this I ask..
Now what am I supposed to do?No red thumb option.
Try Reddit.ie. Red thumbs gone, me gone
Let’s all pretend that the green thumbs are red thumbs and nobody green thumb something they don’t like
@Jlocoroco. .we should have an orange thumbs option..just give us time to make up our minds…
I didn’t download the update, so just to keep you all abreast I am red thumping the s@@t of ye.
Unhealthy obsession , guilty pleasure , school boy crush ,sucker for mayo accent , turned on by wirey hair, you love lilt??
@Tensing Norgay: rt.
He made the remark during the presidential campaign thinking that Clinton was a certainty to be elected. It was a cheap shot playing to the liberal mob in the gallery. Now it’s backfired dramatically. He has egg all over his face and will be dining on humble pie in Donald’s presence.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: I’m going to miss red thumbing you!
@goon4life:Love the new format.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Why do you guys care so much about internet points?Let’s get straight here, the correct format is no meaningless buttons at all. When has the popularity of an argument been testament to it’s veracity? When was it decided that unpopular arguments were necessarily false?Internet points are clickbait. Something you are being sold. Grow up ffs.
Not really . Fact check kinda has his back on this one
@John Considine: Sometimes, red thumbs make you rethink your own entrenched opinions. I, personally, have deep-seated opinions. I have written comments according to my then-held beliefs. The amount of red thumbs I received made me question those beliefs and, upon subsequent analysis and discussion, I changed them. It’s not about popularity. Red thumbs won’t change that. They do have the ability to change people’s perception of things, though.
@Emmet O’Keeffe:“He has egg all over his face and will be dining on humble pie in Donald’s presence.”Errm – you do realise that they already dined right? And that there was no issue?
@John Considine:Affirmation by a jury of my peers on the Journal is important to me John.
After all, this is the cutting edge of social discourse.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: So the millionaire son of a billionaire is not an agent of neoliberal economics. Is this this what you’re telling me?
Red thumbs gone, so am i!!. Moving over to Reddit.
@Buster VL: Do sure. Must be tough being only able to use one app. I’ve been blessed with the ability to effortlessly switch over to one app and then back again whenever I so choose since birth.
@Buster VL:Can I get Reddit app and use it on my phone like this one?
Endas alright. Leave him alone
@Eugene Walsh: why cant i dislike this, journal sort out your new app and Eugene your a s.a.p.!
@Sue Sue: A low like, indicates a high dislike and a high like means a lot of love!
@Sue Sue: red thumb
@Stephen murphy:Not really, the number of likes depends on how long the comment’s been up so it’s not easy to tell at a glance.I know people were asking to disable red thumbs for certain sensitive stories (tragedies etc.) but they’ve gone completely OTT by getting rid of them altogether and this will only see more and more people lose interest and drift away from The Journal.
@Avina Laaf:Maybe we should just swamp the comments section by cutting and pasting “red thumb” as a reply to every comment we dislike….
I’m confused now..so you can say something that is racist but it doesn’t make you a racist..
@sparky:Bit like when a Fine Gael minister makes a pronouncement which is pure spin then clarifies at a later date that that wasn’t what he meant at all.
@ Emmet o’keeffe..agree but get rid of the a, should read..”Fg ministers “
Sure why don’t we all just start writing racist comments on social media/news boards. Or to people we encounter. Going by Enda’s logic it wouldn’t make us racists.The man is an embarrassment.
Speaking of fact checking where was Gerry Adams today…..Trump always supported SF fund raising dinner in NY even in the 90′s….
Kenny did the right thing.  Media is trying a little too hard to stir the pit.
@Joe Caulfield: pot
Typical Irish media, pathetic. Instead of supporting our cause in the world and our interests in America-let’s focus on Enda and what he did/didn’t say. Anyone negative commenting here needs to take a good hard look at our economy and where the majority of our highly skilled jobs come from. Not to mention our busy airports, oh and the fact or economy’s growing. The lot of you would be a complete and utter waste of time in government judging on these comments. Lose Americas suppost, lose our economy
p.s. And don’t start on the ‘oh there’s lots of homeless’ argument either, one usually favoured by the opposition when they’ve no proper points ti make-it has nothing to do with Enda in the US.
@Carolmurph02: God luck with your own version of eyes wide open. Think there’s a film out there called eyes wide shut and it just reminds me of you.
@Mary Murphy: haha, like it!
What part of what I said isn’t true? Are the majority of highly skilled jobs in this country not American?!
Eh no red thumbs? What’s the point then? I only read the journal for the comments. The articles were usually badly written and the comments were best bit. How will I ever now find the most controversial comments?
The guy has a problem with reality, leave him alone! He doesn’t lie he just has an alternative viewpoint. Often it’s at odds with the one he had previously too someone else! Life is like a box of chocolates sometimes he prefers the hazelnut whirls to the strawberry ones.
No red thumbs, goodbye.
The guy just has an issue with reality, leave him alone. He just has an alternative view with what others may perceive. Often that is a variance on what he previously told someone else, but shire so what? Life us like a box of chocolates and some days he prefers the hazel nut whirls to the strawberry truffles!
On a personal note this is one paper I will never read again. Bad enough the leader of the country making us look like fools on the world stage but now our media saying he was right. Your point may have had some footing if whim he was referring to had evolved their view but Trump has remained steadfast therefore your theory falls flat. He called him a racist but has now been so long dealing with the Irish population where the government no longer even try’s to come up with convincing lies when he was pressed he had no sensible response and for you to in any way try to say he had a point just show your own ignorance.
Say what ya want, dosnt mean your racist.. Well that’s a fact check by the Journal..
@Willy Malone: Lovely English there Willy.
Why are you having this fact check???? Ffs nobody can actually let people know how they feel anymore with your crapology tests. Hate your new version of yes minister
Any chance of a factcheck on Gerry Adams ever being in the IRA?
@JoeyJoeJoeJrShabadoo: I’m pretty sure the RUC/PSNI/Garda Siochana/Special Branch/British Intelligence have all tried fact checking it already!?
You’re right … they did and they found that he is the leader of the party led by the IRA. So tell us your alternative fact to that little matter?
@justanothertaxpayer: Then there’s no party, because the IRA doesn’t exist. If they could arrest GA for sneezing he’d be in jail long ago.
Yet the authorities charged with investigating this says there is an IRA and they run SF.You seem to think just because they say they disbanded that we should believe them?  They were more than fine with murder and terrorism… I am sure they have no problem with telling lies too
Just be careful how you comment on people’s comments. Just commenting!!!
He is the definition of the good pupil at school, do good, earn yourself a pat on the head. Embarrassing to say the least, when it comes to a nationally elected representative (leader of the most popular voted party) on the gobal stage.
What is embarrassing about what he’s doing right now? What sort of idiot would you send over…one that would destroy the Irish economy in seconds by the sounds of it.
Why didn’t fact check examine more closely into Kenny’s first remark about Trump’s “racist…policies”? Surely that’s the same as calling someone racist?
See if you can spot the did similarities?
It all depends on how many angels you can get to dance on the point of a needle.
He’s such a snake – never looks anyone in the eye.
If you want some with balls send gerry
Factcheck- is enda kenny a fckn idiot ?
This man does not represent Ireland he is only the boss by a fixHe was not elected by the people
About as welcome as the Journal’s new update
@Tommy Chen: No thumbs down = fail
@Tommy Chen: The Bowl of Shamroguery is nothing but the keys to Shannon War and Torture Port. This abysmal kow-towing began in the Fifties when Uncle Sam was punishing Ireland for Her ambiguous neutrality in WW2, by imposing economic doldrums on the country. The Bowl of Shamroguery was incepted in the Truman administration to say we are sorry for being neutral and you can basically treat us as a doormat now we’ll even build our landing strips large enough for your biggest bombers to spread cowardice inhumanity and rapine to anywhere and everywhere there’s a buck to be made. That’s all it means that’s all it says.”Ireland Shelters Foreign Despots And Their Slaves Despite What It Says In The Lying Caterwaul That Is The National Anthem.”No big deal over Kenny’s insults to Trump. That’s all part of the game. So long as the warbirds and torture jets can still flutter down for a s-h1t shave and brushup all will be well for the greatest Little Counthry To Do Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap In.
Why leave in the green thumbs option? What is the point of green thumbs without red? No point in even disagreeing with people in the comments section anymore as your opinion is not publicly available for criticism via an open voting system.
@Tommy Chen: Yes Journal,  New is Bad , so Bad , the worst update folks.
Without red thumbs everybody looks like they know what they’re talking about.
Not in my name mr Kenny
Why am I still seeing red thumbs?? On an I phone
@Lucy Legacy:  don’t upgrade your Journal app!
@Tommy Chen: thumbs down
@Nick Drake:I think you cracked it nick. I can like your post to show I dis like a comment
@Clever Jake: Your Video is Taboo, the Zionism Rule the show.
What was really said. Donald said to Enda: You said bad things about me. Enda replied: Fake news Donald, fake news
@Tommy Chen: i like the new journal
@Tommy Chen: why don’t you go and use another news source so. It’s pathetic how upset people are that they can no longer throw around imaginary red thumbs to feel important about themselves! SAD!!! FAKE problems!!  LOSERS!!!
https://youtu.be/O3igggNc8yU
What’s all this about thumbs?
Well did Enda follow through on his promise to put it up to Trump..Na didn’t think so.
@Teddy: Trump is a dangerous demagogue who has hoisted himself on top of the carcass of a crumbling society and ideology. So our ruling class will tug their forelocks off trying to appease and ingratiate themselves as ever.
@Benjy Mooney: he was democratically elected Wally. Go tug your own furlough some where.
@Alan Brogan: So will it be o.k if he starts a nuclear war with China so long as he was democratically elected?
@Benjy Mooney: who mentioned nuclear war? Hasn’t been one yet, MAD  will keep that in check. You like hyperbole and BS a lot..
How’s work today Benjy? Oh that’s right.
@Alan Brogan:Yeah, like the establishment managed to keep Trump in check and prevent him being elected. Oh no wait………..
@Alan Brogan: Strictly speaking he wasn’t democratically elected. Only elected by the electoral college. A system used by no other country which explains the term “popular vote” a term used by no other country.Its not particular democratic where your vote is worth more depending on the part of the country you live in.
@Alan Brogan: Do you want another crash? Elect FF next time. Bring in water charges. Fuel the housing boom. Over heat the economy. More Tax breaks for the developers etc. Welcome to the next recession.
@Benjy Mooney: RED THUMB
@Damian O’Brien: Agreed about the electoral college system. But the American electoral system is completely flawed. The American people do not get a choice to vote for the candidate they want. The whole system is corporate driven (Wall Street, Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo etc). All you need is loads of CASH $$$$$$.Tel me this, Why did Bernie Saunders not get a look in. Answer: dollar$$$$$$$$$$$ and Hilary Clinton’s connections. As for Trump he has loads of dollars.
@Brendan Mason: Alan Brogan. I cant see Trump (your God) bailing us out again. Bashing the likes of AAA/PBP is futile. What have they done to break a country? They were never in government in the first place. They are needed to keep a government in check. They abolished the water charges, they brought in a bill legalizing medical cannabis for patients who need it. All FF/FG ever did was create a disastrous health service for the rich and cause a housing crisis. Do you want an american electoral system or right wing (GREED $$$$) in Ireland. I dont think so.
@Alan Brogan:
@Alan Brogan:
@Alan Brogan:
@Alan Brogan:
@Alan Brogan:
@Alan Brogan:
@Brendan Mason: my god? I don’t think so. What a idiotic thing to even say.
@Alan Brogan: I thought he was your god. He’s not mine.
@Teddy: There’s more back bone in a chicken.
@Teddy: Yes, it sounds like Enda followed through
Enda returns a hero. Mission accomplished!!!
What a load of stage managed bull.
Will he get the red carpet-he will get a hot reception.i don’t think it will b as friendly as Bill or Regean or J F K.
@Bennythekid: Does he even have any links to Moneygall?
@Paul Furey: Hero? The national storyteller a hero? Maybe to the brainwashed…
Will we get out the leprechauns to be sure to sure and mother mecroi top of the morning soft day sir.
@Bennythekid: Less red carpet and more rubber sheet I’d say.
@David Duffy-he has Links in Dromoland David.
@Bennythekid: Reagan welcome? Oh the short memories of some people.
@Steve Mac: these comments aren’t going to work without thumbs down ha
@Steve Mac-I shook hands with Reagan in Ballporeen on June 3rd 1984 -so yes he was welcome -unless u were one of the mad nuclear protest that passed through that village afterwards.
@ Bennythekid -sorry that should be Doonbeg.
@Paul Furey: Make Enda Great Again?
@Paul Furey: Anyone see the RTE microphone boom. I think the holder of it tried to hit Trump in the face with it, it looked that way anyway… That would have been funny.So did they incinerate the shamrock this year as they do under health and safety for the farming community in the US?
@The Risen: just as trump was democratically elected and is more than welcome to these shores, despite the faux outrage of the champagne socialists.
@Alan Brogan: You and the elite parasites you speak for may welcome the uber parasite Trump. But you don’t speak for everyone. Maybe the Journal should have a poll?
@Benjy Mooney: After the one to reject a poll of rejecting all of your false accounts please.
@Jho Harris: Another Trump licker.
@Benjy Mooney: you have chip on your shoulder, you along with the idiot murphy AAA and the greens should put up and shout you lot dont represent me, the president of America is more than welcome where were the left, when mr bush sr and jr  who caused a war in the middle east along with tony blair, now we can see what they have done, welcome mr trump on behalf of the normal irish tax paying people, dont list to snowflakes
@Stephen Finn: The socialists were opposing all imperial wars as we always do but you were too blinkered to notice. And if you think the bellowing orange baboon is your friend then you’re truly beyond help.
@Fred Jensen: The ‘whinging Clare Dalys and Pauil Murphys of this world’ were demovcratically elected by their constituents to be their voice in the Dail, just because you don’t agree with them does not mean they should ‘STFU’.
@The Risen:Your comment was left there so that must be the official line of the Journal staff.
Trump knows that a visit is almost a given to secure the Irish American vote. If he comes there will be protests but he wont give a monkeys. The snowflakes will go mental but considering the reliance on US FDI we will have to roll out the red carpet. Real wood politics always beats airy fairy idealism.
@Brian Ward: Exactly.
@Dilly Dong:The socialists opposed Obama’s visit:“This year’s G8 summit will be held in Fermanagh on 17 – 18 June. This gathering brings together the heads of government of eight of the world’s largest capitalist economies to discuss how they can further the interests of those they represent – the super-rich, big business and the bankers.The G8 leaders represent governments which are attacking the living standards of ordinary people. They are determined to make ordinary workers, young people and the middle class pay for a crisis which we did not create in order to fund the bail-out of the bankers and speculators. Their austerity agenda is killing the economy and created mass unemployment across the globe, especially amongst young people. While the super-rich continue to get richer, billions of people on our planet subsist on less than $2/day.”http://socialistparty.ie/2013/05/why-you-should-oppose-the-g8/Where were you?
@Brian Ward: spot on. You can still stand by your opinion and not directly use every opportunity to attack the fellow holding the office.
@Clever Jake: your a very angry man…
Heard kenny weaseling his way through a softball interview on RTE at lunchtime that would have made Ursula Halligan blush.As if kenny was going to do anything different with trump. Kiss up, kick down, its the FG way.
@The Risen: how did gerry get on last night at dinner in the White House? Did he get in the gate this time?
Great news. Looking forward to his visit. We should give him the freedom of Dublin city while he’s here.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Yeah,why not, but bring his own sheep…!!
That u turn left a big skid mark in endas knickers . Cap in hand like the worm he is
@Alan Flood: As much as I dislike kenny, name another Irish politician that you feel would have waded in and read the riot act to big baby potus?
@Honeybadger197: Ruth Coppinger, Paul Murphy, Mick Barry for starters
@Benjy Mooney: good one wally, themLads would rub a mile from power and have no interest in power or making hard decisions.
@Benjy Mooney: Sorry, I meant a relevant politician. Outliers bandying 2-3% of the vote don’t, and shouldnt, speak for the nation.
@Alan Brogan: probably the reason the AAA-PBP were the only party to accept the pay increase that everyone seems to forget about. Champions of the working class etc.
@JoeyJoeJoeJrShabadoo: champagne on the working class..
@Honeybadger197:It’s good that you accept that the Solidarity and PBP politicians wouldn’t debase themselves in front of the bellowing orange baboon as our Taoiseach is currently doing.And by  relevant politicians would you mean those who were and still are the only ones to call for a boycott of the water charge which has sunk the government’s banker tax plans?
The silent majority not paying is what turned the water charges. Yes your team did pick and maintain their position but given the support you have it is clear most people boycotted regardless of political party
@lavbeer:We would never pick any other position to the one we chose. Ditto for the LPT/Home tax where the mass boycott was defeated.Without parties like Solidarity (AAA), PBP, unions, community groups organizing the resistance there would have been no mass marches, protest and boycott and the banker tax would be in place now.But ultimately it is the majority working class who determine if a campaign will succeed or not. When the class organizes , unifies and stands determined, it’s a more powerful force than the capitalist state.
@Alan Flood: no comment
@Alan Flood: it’s great that you have a forum for your bitterness.
donald j trump is very welcome here.
Trump being the only one who didn’t go for a green tie – bit of a power play.
@OU812: He would have looked like the tricolour. Green tie, white shirt, orange face.
@OU812: Yeah, I noticed that too. Thought he was making a statement?
@meatyslaps: Lol you’ve just made my day. Lol
@The Risen:Would be nice if we didn’t get Clare Dalys opinion at the top of the news everyday however. People who depend on the taxpayer for everything should learn to be a little more humble.
President Trump will be very welcome here. Enda isn’t.
Hopefully they will visit amadán sorry Aodhán ó Ríordáin.
Haha this will be highly entertaining!
Trump just has bad PR given the drone king got a free ride, and freedom of Dublin after an 8 year stint and the US involved in more wars.If Obama was welcome after his treasury secretary blocked a favourable deal for Ireland when we needed our friends, then Trump who has so far not anything hostile towards Ireland is also welcome.
The mainstream media RTE and Newstalk and newspapers simply hate Trump…Like teenagers they go in gangs… Without much insight into why they believe something….Main point of Obama is that he was cool and looked great dancing on Ellen…
@Robert D: Imagine giving the freedom of Dublin to a Man who set North Africa on fire
Can’t wait. Someone stick in the kettle.
Stick what in the kettle?
So Enda has invited the Pope and Trump over? That’s some top drawer trolling he’s doing on us.
@Deborah Behan: We already had the Queen and all the EU leaders so it must be Putin’s turn soon.
Who wiped the camera lens with Edna’s knickers?
Like Obama  – Trump will stop off here on the way to see the Queen. And he’ll stay at his Clare golf club….
We need to build a wall to keep that golden shower loving , money hungry, daughter loving in a strange way f##ktard out at all costs
Why didn’t you stay in your own country and try  sort it out rather than dashing off to lick arse. What a waster you are and trump knows it, too.
@Emer Daly: bitter little comment all the trolls out it’s only a formality get over it
Trump couldn’t be more disinterested if he tried and Kenny looks like a young fella sent to the head masters office for a good slap !!!
On my behalf he need not bother coming . He won’t be welcome .
@Mary Mc Carthy:  hope he doesn’t hear that I’d say it would really upset him
The Irish media have always opposed US Republican Presidents and gushed over Democratic ones.
Kenny looks like he’s visiting Santa.
He loves Ireland? I doubt he can point Ireland out on a map…although neither can I so probably shouldn’t hold that against him.
@O Swetenham: yeah, he owns a golf course here ya muppet.
@TehJurolan: don’t be so delicate. I wasn’t being serious.
They’re showing their true colours now . . . green & orange.
He better get here within the year of he wants to come while he is still president
Wow. Would be nice to get an exaplanation for why my comment was deleted. Is welcoming the President of the United States against Journal policy?
Their body language says it all – kenny is on the side of his seat leaning into trump, trump is centred in a fixed position – I also do horoscopes and water dowsing
This will be gas. Imagine how much more orange he will appear standing amoungst a load of pale irish people.
@Colm Ó Liatháin: judging someone by the colour of their skin, how racist.
Fake tan looks stupid. There i said it. Now run along and take your estrogen
@Colm Ó Liatháin: what a very thought provoking comment
Looking forward to a proper president coming over
@Martin O Donnell: we had o e here s few years ago oh was he not a proper one sorry
@Margaret Mcgarry: no Obama was not a proper one at least with president trump the world will be a better place …..obama created more problems than he solved and anyway if the president of America wants to visit us he should be welcomed with open arms it’s good for business
@Martin O Donnell: ,”good for business” are you the only one that didnt hear Trump going on about keeping US companies in the US. Just last week a big steel supplier in Kilkenny lost a major contract to supply steel to a US pharma company doing an extension to its plant here in Ireland only to have it stopped because of Trumps policy of keeping US companies in the US. And when asked about about Doonbeg he said he wasn’t interested in it any more. So how is he good for business here then?
@Nick Allen: Trump won the election under the rules of the electoral college, but got 3 million less votes then the runner up.If less people voting for you than your opponent fits your definition of being ‘democratically elected’ then fair enough.
@The Risen:In fairness, had the battle been for the popular vote then both parties would have approached it differently. Personally I feel Trump would have won regardless.
Solidarity and Paul Murphy etc consider it a back handed compliment that mouthpieces like Fred stamp their feet impotently wishing we would just STFU with our inconvenient truths. Trump is a dangerous demagogue who has hoisted himself on top of the carcass of a crumbling society and ideology. Our ruling class will tug their forelocks off trying to appease and ingratiate themselves as ever.
Enda will have to hang on for that now. Cabbage.
The man’s a god
He was very complementary to the people of Ireland for having had the courage to make those decisions and make the many sacrifices they have made over the past number of years………….we didnt………..we were forced to
Enda should apologise and stop sucking up to the PC brigade.
@Rosa Parks: Trump Welcome.
will trump now suddenly get the planning permission he wanted for doonbeg?
I hope he comes. He never seems to hear me giving out to him when he’s on the telly. A big mad protest could be fun.
Going to delete the Journal App.This update is Sh!!t
@Fred Jensen: Believe it or not Fred, Clare Daly and Paul Murphy DO get to dictate policy. They’re TDs, elected by the people to … dictate policy!
What a load of Shlt well done Enda who will be here to welcome that
Does anyone else remember when John Bruton was Taoiseach and we all prayed he wouldn’t laugh? This time we’re all praying that Kenny won’t invite Trump.
@Damian O’Brien: No we’re not all praying for that, Trump has been invited and he said he would come. Great news.
@Fred Jensen: Believe it or not Fred, Clare Dly and Paul Murphy DO get to dictate policy. They’re TDs, elected by the people to … dictate policy!
God that looked awkward
Wonder did racism pop up ☺
Sickening letting that into the White House to represent us.A nodding dog would stand up for his country better.
@Dave cullen: Stand up for what exactly?
@Nick Drake: stand up for a decent hospital service,stand up and not say it’s immoral to tax a family home then go and tax it anyway,stand up and sack the corrupt fcks he’s surrounded by,nama etc.Hes a weasel who fluked the job by default.
Hopefully it’s just an alternative fact.
@ Fred Jensen . Who is ‘we’ you are talking about ? On my part I don’t mind paying taxes towards those who are less fortunate than others ! Let’s hope you never get ill or old and don’t need help from the state . And the help most get is from money they already paid in to the system when working ! Fine lack of empathy you have there Fred . Obviously you have forgotten the help and handouts you got to educate yourself
@Clever Jake:Do you remember the time a couple of years ago when 100′s of KKK marched through a city’s streets shouting ‘what do we want, dead cops, when do we want them, now’https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-dr_IhQu-I&t=35sThough the right wing racists will just accuse CNN of being biased.
Fwiends
Like all stage managed political events, this is utter bs… integrity, truth and leadership are always in short supply in the arena of democratic politics… as each day passes they are in danger of total distinction!
Go on Ruby!!!!!
@The Risen:The same can be said about Trump being democratically elected
Why are we inviting to Ireland a racist .A man who makes fun of the disabled.And a man who has no respect for women.He may have been democratically elected.So was Adolf Hitler.In his budget today they are providing no money for overseas aid at a time when the UN says the world faced its biggest humanitarian tragedy since World war 2 in the  Middle East and Africa.The man’s visit should be met with huge protests in Ireland.Shame on Enda Kenny asking him to this country
Why are the red thumbs gone? Poor form!
@Dilly Dong:What problems are those now exactly? I think you’ll find Coppinger is far less likely to initiate a nuclear holocaust for example.
I bet it was totes awky momo when the reporter asked Enda about the racist comments!! Pity Enda didn’t have the balls to answer.
Well that was lovely. A lovely moment to recognise the long history of Irish American contribution to the US. The 40 million Irish Americans deserve the recognition. Way more than the keyboard warriors of Ireland
Enda extends an invite to Trump knowing full well he will not be greeting him on his arrival. Talk about leaving a bucket of slop for the person who inherits your position.
All Hail Trump……….Hail Hail!
Obama had a dog I wonder would Trump keep Kenny as this lap dog if I sent out a bag of food.
@Fred Jensen: ….a thousand red thumbs to you!
Fwiends
Donald said to Enda: You said bad things about me. Enda replied: Fake news Donald, fake news
Did he present a bowl of shamrock, or what?
the journal  bring back the red thumbs what are you at or maybe you want more lefties on it
The Anti-Trump agenda by The Journal got boring weeks ago.
listening to murphy, AAAA and the greens stating we should not invite Trump to ireland well you lost can get lost I welcome the president of america to our country, the problem is the lefty gobshits will hijack this visit and ruin it, murphy and company, dont represent me or speak for me, the should stick with the bums on welfare and the new irish the travellers
What’s wrong with the mad PC brigade. He is the elected President I’m sure he is worried about a few snow flakes here. Of course Enda was right to go Trump represents people who supply thousands of jobs in this country & don’t give me shit about tax rate & all that rubbish. USA companies are the back bone of this country
@John Maye: The Revolutionary Left see democracy as useful only when it furthers the Revolution.
RTFU – ‘Red Thumb For You’ is my new reply to anything I would have red-thumbed in the past.
Trump Supported May’s Brexit, Enda’s has to.
Be like 1979 all over again
More like 1984 with Reagan…Will Michael D be part of the protest with placard ..
He’s coming# and our fella isnt going# Simon and Leo                          hot under collar#
He has a valuable lesson to teach Europe about immigration
@Fred Jensen: You’ll find the main whingers were in fg, ff and labour or have you missed o riordains position as grand marshal of the anti-parade lol
Suck miiiiiiii b##$@LLssssss journal update. Rrrrraaaaawwwwwhhh
@Paul Mc Manus: I’m replying to myself to give me a thumbs down. Because it’s the only wayyyyyyyyyy mathahhhhhhhhhh @@ackassssss hahaha only joking. Just means I’ll always feel good about myself because there’s no negative thumbs. Yeyyyyyyy….. Don’t fight the system guys haha
Well he will be president for next 8 years if democrats can’t get over their Russian obsession…..Should at least visit here once…
Headline #tag….all over Enda
Dies your hoover suck?  The new Journal update does.  #bringbacktheoldapp
Why on earth would you do such a thing Enda you useless feck man
Great news :)
As long as he responded with “I will ya” we’re grand!
Enda has a face you want to..
You are all  such a pious ungrateful bunch!. Imagine if that was say Luxembourg or Malta over there taking hours and hours of the time of the most powerful men in the world with them saying lovely things about their country????. We would be raging mad with jealousy and wondering why we couldn’t get the same .
Does Enda get off on being patronised or something?
The big red head on him when asked about his comments on Trumo
What did St. Patrick say as he drove the snakes out of Ireland?Are ye alright in the back there lads? !!!! ♧♣♧♣♧♣
Spicer back to old self now.
According to the BBC, Enda also managed to speak to the dead today too!
@Brian Quinlan:http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-39289707
Over my dead body
I laughed and laughed and laughed at all the people that thought Enda would somehow stand up to Trump.Poodle-ing it up…
Is this what they call fake news?????
Well I’ve tried to come up with something anything to this manure….but I fail. People give out about Trump but we have been giving out about Edna for so long, way before ever the Maurice McCabe scandal was highlighted by Ednas lies and then the poor Tuam babies. Yet this clot has the brass neck to sit there and look stupid……yet again. And as for Fionnuala she looks like she’s a cast iron stomach. Well to be fair shed need it with Edna. When will Simple Simon or Leo the Lion realise that sitting pretty isn’t going to help the grass grow. Especially since Edna on his lovely wife’s advice has decimated it?
Personally i dont think Enda Kenny should be going about inviting whoever he wants to Ireland without asking us the people first. After all could we start inviting people to his house with out asking him,….i dont think so and especially not another moron of a “politician” like Trump.
Enda wore a very long tie. Imitation is the greatest for of flattery. So now in Enda’s world Trump is no longer a racist !!
Enda Kenny is a perpetual liar.
@Ian Walsh: He is a politician?
oooohhhhhhhhhhhhh fukkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk
What a shower of hypocrites and money wasting bulls,,ters  we have in the Irish government with the fact that they could stoop so low. We really make a mock of ourselves with this two faced stunt, the Irish media  in the Whitehouse the same media that has constantly criticised Trump are now playing up to the man.The americans are only laughing at these wretched little foolish talking green men licking up to them.
I am sure Trump meant what he said about Ireland,
Where was Melania today?
Oh dear. Spicer said “Teesutch”.
I really don’t know how to deal with the world right now. Maybe it’s just a collective dream that we all need to wake up from very soon.
Will he be visiting the Orange men in the North?
@Dilly Dong:‘You have bigger concerns than Trump, with a lunatic like Ruth Coppinger representing you.’Nice one Dilly
Even the pint of Guinness looks miserable!
Cead Mile Failte President Trump.MAGA.
Whats with all the make up on enda, he’d give one of those comedy dames a run for their money!
Why has Donald Trump been invited to Ireland.This man is no friend of Ireland.Threre will be massive protests in this country if he comes here.He is not welcome.
Donald trump is lookin at enda bursting his bollix laughing. Who’s this  clown hahaha
The journal is no fun now i can’t red thumb AAA Wally.If you move over to Redditch, i can troll you there!
The Irish Government is between a rock and a hard place. The POSITION of POTUS commands respect and honours when visiting other countries.  The fact that the position is filled with one of the most detested and despicable POS ever to walk among men complicates the matter for everybody. The leaders of the rest of the world have to suck it up and make nice with this venal, egotistical, xenophobic conman in hopes he won’t destroy their counties as he is destroying the USA. Sad. Bad.
But which of his pals is he going to stay with Inda or Gerry?
Facepalm!
@Ashling Fenton: Unlike the first video pic that makes you think asspalm with that steamy look to it lol.
Well there’s another reason for the ”fighting Irish” in that IRL is not a neutral country by any legal definition being as it is prohibited in Hague V to allow belligerents to transit materiel and personnel across neutral soil and prohibited for belligerents to operate wireless telegraphy (although precedent exists for that as deV allowed Hempel to keep his transceiver despite Maffey demanding he not do so).This is just a renewal of the annual lease on the War&TorturePort convenient to his golf club.  The helipad there’ll take an Apache weapons platform same as SNN City’s runways can handle fully loaded B-52s and always have been able to no doubt.  That’s what he means about forgetting friends.  That’s what he’s saying, or meaning:”Hands off the Warport and blind eyes to all the US cowardice inhumanity and rapine perpetuated with its help and ye can lecture away all night and we’ll nod in agreement.  Still do our own thing but we might put in a big order to CRH for cement and blocks.  Pat on the head now for Pat or Enda or whatever bigly little man we have here with a nice golf prize bowl of weed wonder can I spark this up later?”
Kenny – Let Trump Build the Wall…Friend Old Friend
Trump is had up for friends.
OOOooo A new look by Enda like the comment line now lol.
Martin Luther King’s Bust: “I have a nightmare….” Undocumented has now become inexplicable.
I think Enda might have just given Trump the most presidential moment of his tenure so far.
@The Risen: They do represent the constituency for which they were elected.
He never said it was an Irish proverb. Dire clickbait.
Does anyone know where Gerry Adams and Mary Lou were today…Were always there during Bush and Obama presidency
https://youtu.be/O3igggNc8yUFriends…… Political friends, Fiola friends
@Fionan Long: So he’ll be reading out an Irish proverb on Nigerian national day then ?
@Fionnán Long: are you deaf ?
Deaf, dumb and blind ?
He didn’t say “Irish proverb”, he just said “that proverb”. Believe me, I’m all for a bit of Trump-bashing, but this is exactly the kind of stuff his supporters can point to when they say the MSM is out to get him. Surely he says enough truly ludicrous stuff that we can show him up by sticking to the facts???
I agree and I’m looking forward to him doing an Irish proverb on Nigeria’s national day, he my even do a German one on Israel’s national day.  Arbeit macht frei would be a good choice can’t go wrong.
@Boganity: he doesn’t have to do an Irish one on Nigeria’s national day since *he* didn’t say the one he used yesterday was Irish. The article has decided it was an Irish proverb in its headline, attempting to make Trump look foolish. I believe he’s more than capable of doing that all by himself.
@Celine McGowan: A lot of people are saying he didn’t say it was an Irish proverb, a lot more are saying it was implicit in the context, what seems sure is that whether it was a proverb or a poem, it was written by an esteemed member of the Nupe tribe who are 94% Islam, so heads up to Donald for reaching out, unless someone was taking the Green pint outa him :)
I love this guy :-)
This administration is comedy gold : Trump’s “Irish” proverb was written by Nigerian Albashir Adam Alhassan. If he’s Muslim it’ll be a delicious irony.
@Hello there friend: now say it like Trump would say it.” I love this guy, I really do. Great guy, I mean it, he’s gonna be great, this guy!”
And then he’ll bar him and he won’t be allowed into the USA again
@Boganity: Alhassan is indeed a Muslim Boganity.
The more I read these pompous articles the more I’m starting to like Trump.
If you left the word “starting” out of that comment it would have been believable.
Ireland could do with the likes of trump here.
True, we need a good laugh
Seriously, Democrats/liberals are the pits aren’t they.They really need to get a life.
Ouch…is that the best you can do, really!
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Yeah, they should come over here and learn how to be real politicians :) Why don’t they come over here on July 4th every year and bring us a few bowls of Four leaved Shamrocks, no clover mind :) Orange bowls preferred.
I think Mark Littles tweet was fairly close to being an Irish Proverb.
@Ron North: Yes I have heard that one before alright !
Donald must have told Enda before their press conference..” Pog mo thóin” because that he surely did..
@sparky: Your a begrudging auld git
Poor old Albashir has no chance of entering the USA anymore……
Well done, this time Trump is definitely finished, how will he ever recover?
So he basically said “Fudge you enda”!
I read between the lines on that too.
He wouldn’t have know anything about Kenny until his staff briefed him 5 minutes before the meeting
He realised how much of a pet Kenny is,good boy sit.
He’s entertaining if nothing else
True he never said it was an irish proverb,just showsyou how people are brainwashed
@Michael O’mal: I rather have a Spike Milligan poem?
@Alois Irlmaier: It makes more sense:On the Ning Nang NongWhere the Cows go Bong!and the monkeys all say BOO!There’s a Nong Nang NingWhere the trees go Ping!And the tea pots jibber jabber joo.On the Nong Ning NangAll the mice go ClangAnd you just can’t catch ‘em when they do!So its Ning Nang NongCows go Bong!Nong Nang NingTrees go pingNong Ning NangThe mice go ClangWhat a noisy place to belongis the Ning Nang Ning Nang Nong!!Spike Milligan
@Pinkpantheroz: The joys of Spike…
Now that Trump has two “new friends” will  we forget that he is a racist misogynistic  narcissistic  megalomaniac? Sure it was only “in terms of the language he used”…..like locker-room talk!
@marg fitzgerald: locker room talk is everyone – not just potus.
You forgot xenophobic. Islamophic and he hates orphans and poor children and has said very mean things about the media and hates polar bears and Christmas
@John003: “He hates poor children” – Well spotted John!! You have obviously seen his budget proposals ..Yikes!I do wonder are the people from the Rust Belts extremely sorry that they voted for this snake oil salesman called Trump ?!!?
Here’s an old Irish proverb for him: what’s the difference between and apple and an orange? No such thing as an apple bastar….
Except it strikes one that joke’s superannuated for sound 13 billion reasons. Tax free reasons.
@John O’Driscoll:  What about peaches ? I thought he said I’m not orange, Impeach, or maybe that was someone else.
Them bloody Nigerians probably stole it,
@Teddy: that bloody prince again
Enda knew he was in the company of greatness
There’s no use boiling your cabbage twice.
Since St Patrick is the patron saint of Nigeria, quoting a Nigerian poet6is pretty apt as things said by Trump go.
Your article quotes as follows: “As we stand together with our Irish friends, I’m reminded of an Irish proverb.” Yet this is not what he said. He never said it was an Irish proverb. #fakenews I’m no fan of his, but I’m calling shenanigans on this stupid, incorrect article.
You’ve even linked to a video of the speech and still misquoted it. Terrible.
LOL come on the Irish Diaspora, someone’s taking the Miceal out of Donald. The poet, Mr Alhassan, is an esteemed member of the 94% Islamic tribe, the Nupe. Donald, your own people will beat some Irishness into you yet, live and let live, reach out to the world, Catholic, Muslim, Protestant, who cares, be a part of not apart from. It’s okay even if you’re Orange, but Shamrocks will never have four leaves.:)
I’m finished with Journal.ie. The only good thing about Journal was the old comment section and you ruined it just so that snowflakes won’t get offended and be in there safe bubble.
Everyone likes me and thinks I’m greatIn my safe space (my safe space)People don’t judge me and haters don’t hateIn my safe space (your safe space)
If your comment is red thumbed and you can’t see it. Has it really happened?!
@Eoin Mulhern: should be ‘their safe bubble’ Eoin.
Think this happened to people who had automatic updates for apps on their phones tablets etc as I can still see the red thumbs..
@Eoin Mulhern: He’s moaning about his little red thumbs, yet he calls others snowflakes lolOne good thing about this update is that it will get rid of a lot of the thumb glory trolls
@Soccer T’s: At least they got rid of the fucking bad language filter.  That was a right pain in the bollox altogether. :-)
@Eoin Mulhern: Yeah, red thumbs were a good indicator that ones opinions were upsetting the alt-right snowflakes in their echo chamber. I got lots. I’ll miss them all . . .
Yes that’s true, I will not be updating journal app
This ‘snowflake’ bollox is wearing thin. When did Irish people start talking like American teenagers.
There there o swetenham you precious snowflake.
If invited someone to my house and they started to tell me how to run my own house I would leave them on their arse outside the gate..
@Ray Reilly:If I were someone who represented a country and was leader of a party that purported to be against racism and religious discrimination. And if I in this capacity had spoken out against the world’s most famous racist and religious discriminator. Then I might be obliged to say something about said racism and religious discrimination or else be labelled a coward and a hypocrite.
How can Kenny lecture anyone on racism when he was caught telling racist jokes himself. Something that is never ever spoken about in the Irish media..
So how did you hear about his racist joke Cosmo? I heard about through in the media.
Jimmy go onto Google there and the only Irish media outlet to even mention he told a racist joke is the indo from 15 years ago..
@Ray Reilly: “I would leave them on their arse outside the gate..” – you’re racist Ray, can’t wait someone report you to THEM
Yes Ray but I assume that you own your house, you’re not just housesitting for a few years.
@ Ray Reilly . If I was invited to someone ‘s home who I did not like or respect I would stay at home !!!!!!
Enda nor any of his party colleagues have the ‘balls ‘ to speak out to Trump !
Kenny will probably push the Mrs into the room first and hide behind her..
He was comical during the week explaining to the American media what “Taoiseach” meant.Chieftan my hole,the sleeveen will bow before Trump,even Ursula Halligan put the wind up him,spineless.
@Dave cullen: Der Fuhrer is another way of saying Taoiseach.
@Dave cullen: who is putting pressure on him to bring this up? It’s zero to do with us, as Ireland or Europe.  If we have an issue with it raise it with your TD and they can raise it with foreign affairs, and the can raise it with the US diplomatic corp, and they can file it next to “irrelevant, non political posturing”, but don’t try and make out that a negative-power jumped up councillor like Kenny has a say like proper leaders. It’s just embarrassing.
@Dave cullen: Ah; but Dave, one of the biggest celebrities in the US the one and only Mickey Mouse wears an Enda Kenny watch.
The title should read – “Pressure on Enda Kenny by the Journal to speak out against Trump travel ban during shamrock ceremony”
The Taoiseach should be home in Ireland to celebrate Irishness not off getting his jollies at our expense. As if any US President gave a shít if we were there or not.
@john Appleseed: What other country in the World has this opportunity to turn the world green?  From Ireland to Argentina, to Japan, to Russia.Ireland is standing on the spot light this week only, we should use it to our full advantage.Talking to the world’s most powerful leader about his travel ban will only take the attention away and put Ireland in a negative view.  Trump can’t get his ban passed the courts for now so let see what happens there first.http://www.irishcentral.com/culture/19-most-surprising-places-around-the-world-to-celebrate-st-patricks-day
Whats the point in speaking out to a president who doesn’t  listen to anything other than his own voice. Enda should mind his council and let the American courts do their work.
There is no pressure on Enda it’s only anti trump media bias , its not our prime minister’s place to tell the US president how to run his / her country !
Send Gerry Adams over to meet with Trump. He’d respect him more than Enda Kenny
@Nash: How could anyone respect a man responsible for the death of innocents?
@Robert Hunt: Trump’s only up to 30 so far in his tenure. Not sure of Gerry’s official tally, as he *still* pretends he was just a pen pusher during the troubles. Apparently, he wants reconciliation and closure, but only *after* he runs for presidency.
Kenny is a busted flush!
The new format panders to the open-border airheads.  24 hours later, this site has already become a place where the kumbaya brigade can spout their anti-Trump, anti-European, anti-Christian, pro-migrant poison with immunity.  This format was carefully chosen.
Enda wouldn’t have the balls to say a bad thing to trump he will be stuck up his arse no doubt he is a joke of a leader,maybe trump should teach him a thing or two about how to run things and how to stick to election manifesto,and I agree it’s stupid they took away dislike part of comments,I got more dislikes than likes but it was still a good feature,pc bullshit coming to the journal
” Trump will teach him a thing or two about how to run things”Like health insurance for everyone…nah forget itLike getting another country to pay for a  “wall” that they don’t want..nah forget itLike introducing a “travel ban” ..nah forget it..
@Francis Mc Carthy: Everything Trump said in Election that he wanted to do he is trying to get through so yeah he could teach enda a thing or two about election promises like it or not,if enda promised to build a wall we would end up with no walls in Ireland,And like enda promised health care in Ireland before 1st election?where is that now?enda is a joke and lies and lies,Trump might be a bit brass but if he says he will do it he does it #FACT
Wouldn’t be a bad idea for Kenny to wear crash helmet when he’s handing over the bowl of shamrock, the way things are going for Trump at the moment…..
I doubt Trump will want to be lectured on his “banned” travel ban this morning!
Pressure from whom?
Trumps 4 leaf clover hats are back againhttps://shop.donaldjtrump.com/products/official-make-america-great-again-green-hatIs it just me or is this really sticking 2 fingers up at the Irish again
@Paul Somers: I think Trump likes Ireland – not sure why – but we seem to be in his good books.
Not from me there’s not. Only idiots and the journal (same thing) want him to say anything. Trump would laugh at him.
For Kenny to speak out it would require spine and balls. He has neither.
Give them all Shamrock !
Tired of globalist propaganda where we are told to nag other countries to throw open their borders to all and sundry.
Wow.  Talk about over playing your hand. Some people seem to think Ireland is a big player on the global stage. Delusional.
Let him off enda, don’t bloody break anything that’s not already broken
The US runs it’s own affairs just like Ireland does. If we start telling the US what to do in their own country then we can expect to be ignored and much worse, thought of as idiots. Please, do protest about Shannon renditions (I agree with those protests) but leave the travel ban alone.
Hope he dosent give him any  fake shamrock or we’ll be hearing it on Twitter!
Bring back the red thumbs!!! You have ruined the comments section be removing this!
@Dylan McDonald: YES BRING BACK RED THUMBS!!
@Dylan McDonald: how many reds do ya think you’d have by now? I pressed green
@Dylan McDonald: how many reds do ya think you’d have by now? I pressed green
the new journal.ie is Shiiiittte
Nobody likes a change .. everyone will get used to except for the red thumps .. they so need to be brought back !!
@Suzie Sunshine: thumbs *
Yeah I’m honestly thinking of quitting. Anywhere else worth getting my news from? Maybe you can’t tell me though because that would be promoting a commercial enterprise
@Dylan McDonald: Get over it!
@dilon, you currently have 8 red thumbs
#dylan , but who gives a toss about spellings and grammar now that people cant red thumb?
@Dylan McDonald: fcuk the red thumb brigade. Senseless morons with nothing else to do. Red thumbs being hit on people expressing sympathy with the fallen heroes of 116. Fcuk them and you for wanting it back.
@Suzie Sunshine: The whole format is bad, never mind the red thumbs, which need to be brought back. It looks like they overused the bleach in an attempt to sanatise comments and commenters.
@Dave Doyle: I think it was the only way to deal with the hate-mongering bigots and morons.  Hopefully it will lead to proper debate and discussion.
@Dylan McDonald: Yeah its a bit shite without the red thumbs.
@Aaron Van ZANT. I have been reading the journal for about 4 years now, I was never a member, but really enjoyed the banter with the red and green thumbs. I only registered yesterday and I have to say am disappointed, it’s not the same, too tame, too sterile, too PC.
Awkward Seal, news? On here? I thought this was just entertainment,  with some political bias thrown in to try, and fail, to give it gravitas.I’m shocked. Shocked, I tell ya.
Coles, presumably, ‘hate-mongering bigots and morons’ are those who disagree with your view of the world?
Enda you haven’t a clue Boss
@Dan Henry’s: don’t be calling him boss he might start believing it!
@eileen boles: why is Nigel Farage on our airways? He is no person of authority on anything. I’m sick of anyone with extreme views constantly brought on for “balance”.
@Deborah Behan agree, can’t stand him.
What an embarrassment to the country both nationally and internationally from this man.The longer his taoiseach the more weak Leo or Simon is going to look for not challenging him.not that they will be probably any different.fine Gael are hopefully certain to get destroyed at the next elections
@dick dastardly: I cant even bring myself to read his words. Hate the man, someone should give farage a link to his really really funny joke he made a few years back.Anyhows I cringe at the thought of him representing us as our leader. like ff fg why oh why do you let this buffoon carry on as the leader of the state. Makes me sad inside to think we have some really spinless people in the dail and the spineless chicken heads who vote for them.Help ne Jesus help me.Oh yeah need red thumbs back please not the same without!
What a bufoon
He’ll be wearing that bowl tomorrow,Trump won’t let the little chieftain talk down to him.
@Dave cullen: looking forward to that!
@Dave cullen: Have you forgotten how “tough” Trump looked at the press conference in Mexico last August…”We didn’t discuss it (wall)”…Poor little snowflake.
@Dave cullen: little chieftain? More like Enda Hitler, or Napoleon, little dictator
Pure Fine Gael speak.Enda’s referring to the disconnect between what a man says and what he means.The space Fine Gael occupy in public discourse.
What a load of gibberish from our Taoiseach ..Is it any wonder our country is frucked?
Clearly enda must’ve slept through English class back in the day. Hypocrisy of the man knows no bounds!
Farage’s request seems reasonable since ek did actually say that Trump is a rascist. And i do no agree with ek in this regard.
Nice to see Enda having to answer questions without the aid of the usual sycophantic Irish media on hand to tee up handy questions. Obviously he’s incapable of really responding clearly in an open & honest way but that’s been his M O since becoming the Clown King! I hope the blonde wigged bigot gives him a roasting.
how he lasted 40 yrs in Irish Parliament?
Enda the flip flopper
They used to call Bertie the Teflon taoiseach he’s not a patch on Inda tho. How he’s still in office after the most recent lie re: meeting with k zappone I don’t know.
Enda is going to upset an awful lot of Trumpflakes it would seem!
Trump speaks for U.S.A. ie the American people so respect them ie. their President. This, is Democracy.
@gregory: The majority of the American people voted for Hilary Clinton, by over 3 million votes, so no, Trump does not speak for the American people, you fail bigly.
@OpenBorders:  Kenny is in a country with a real border already found to be a racist.OpenBorders you don’t even have a real name and a real picture which suits a supporter of the Hilda beast! Just emigrate to some country with OpenBorders er where????
not true geofneette grenzen and u know it. DONALD Trump won the U.S. election according to their system, even u not like fly-over States hence their representation via electoral college system even if low population or otherwise only ny, cal and Fla can decide right _ population centres. Da.
@gregory: He said that more Americans voted for HC than Trump, which is true
Maybe true but completely irrelevant. Your heroine Clinton lost, to arguably the worst opposing candidate in the history of US presidential elections; build a fukkin bridge now and get over it..
So embarrassed for him. It seriously is like sending Father Ted to represent the country.
Enda Kenny is a national embarrassment.
Of course trump is not racist. Enda was just trying to gain some political brownie points never expecting that trump would win.
Let’s not forget he is over there trying to get legal residency for Irish illegal immigrants. Let’s hope the bowl of weeds brings him good luck. Looking forwards to Trump’s Tweets.
What is yar wan’s problem, closest to Enda in pic. Perpetual chip on shoulder syndrome.
Ahh, tis yourself Christina, 4th in from the left.
@Watchful Axe: is that Matt LeBlanc in the first photo… Maybe taking enda for a test drive, see what kinda emissions he comes out with, the hybrid… Insert comment here!
Planet enda is different to Planet earth.
He is a clown.the great EU negotiator,will his supporters please stop fooling themselves.
Leave him alone. They are good men standing up for what they believe in.
Ladies and gentlemen, the leader of our country. A walking talking disaster, and showcasing his “talents” for all the world. To be fair he can’t back up what he said this morning not a mind a few months back. A holy show!
Your talking about Trump right ?
I couldn’t care less about Trump, he’s the president of another country. I’m talking about the leader of this country, Ireland. People blowing their holes about a president of a different country is ridiculous when we have the numptys in charge here voted in by the bigger numptys in the electorate. Worry about the state or your own country ffs!
@Emer Cullen: remind me again?
@Emer Cullen: Good men? Donald Trump and his new friend? Beliefs? Are you joking?
‘When is racist language racist?’Judge for yourselves….Google ‘enda kenny Lumumba’
This is censorship, where are the red thumbs
Comment for the sake of it.
Great example to set as a “leader” you can use racist language kids, doesn’t make you a racist..Jesus wept, get off the stage and hand over the shovel ffs.Fine Gael ministers have their hands full trying to defend Noonan. Can’t wait to hear them try defend this cluster****
It’s hard to believe people adore Trump. Suddenly the incredible ability to brainwash people into baseless ideologies becomes real.
trade deficitx china/asia and unemployment
@gregory: Trump will only increase the deficit. Competition is not about resorting to 1950′s economics and attitudes, or whenever America ‘was Great’.Trump is totally unproven as an economist, despite his erratic real estate speculative bully credentials.
Yeah, maybe Kenny could give him a few pointers when he’s there; he knows shitloads sbout the economy..
Red thumb red thumb red thumb
Bring back the RED THUMBS !    R E D  T H U M B S  now please.
It’s not racist when enda is spakin
“Pinocchio Kenny” is a fitting handle for him…
@thejournal, your new comments section sucks!
just f**kin leave already, Christ!
Does he not realise how ridiculous he sounds ?    ” if someone makes a racist comment, it doesn’t follow that they are racist”.     He’s an embarrassment.
Paddy doesn’t like to know if someone is racist or not
you see even NL went green :(http://www.nu.nl/verkiezingen-2017/4467147/liveblog-groenlinks-kijkt-prognose-historisch-resultaat.html?redirect=1
In the mayo idiots alternative universe,populated by men with two pints..the candidate ceases being a candidate upon election.. ..
I don’t know. He could be right , you know. I have to admit to laughing at and even telling what some would call racist jokes from time to time. I love the Paddy the Irishman etc., jokes. As for Kerry jokes, sure, they are the best. Did you hear the one about the Kerry woman who fell out the window while ironing her curtains ? That’s probably sexist as well. But here’s the real funny thing. I’m not racist. Or a mysogynist. Or anti-religion ( well, in the sense that people should be free to believe in anything they wish so long as it doesn’t impact adversely in anyway on others ).  I’m more of a live and let live person so long as you behave in a reasonable manner. But I don’t think I should have to watch every second of everyday in case in case I offend one of perpetually offended cohort. Now, did you hear the one about the lesbian, the gay guy and the gender fluid person ?
@Ig Clarke: self awareness classes maybe?
Fair play to Chris Donohoe on Newstalk he gave Kenny a bit of a grilling. Kenny ended up sounding like an idiot, not for the first time.
the comments section was the best part of thejournal.ie . the new comment system is a serious step back for interaction with the red thumb and readability
The red thumbs are still here? Or am I missing something?
Just because someone says idiotic things doesn’t make them an idiot! But if the shoe fits.
@Jamie Mul: but if theyre saying idiotic things all the time?
I remember him calling Donald Trump a racist among other insults or did I just imagine it all?
This bumbling fool is making a show of us all. What an idiot.
Clown when you say something back it up stupid statement when he thought Trump was never going to be president now he tries to snipe away from it .DONKEY
Do you notice the way Enda keeps his hands together with his fingers entwined when he speaks?He can mask his facial expressions, with that unvaryingly earnest expression.However he is concerned that unconscious hand movements will reveal his lies.
Class! I’ll drink to the US Judges on Friday!!
@Patrick Reenan: Even liberal Irish judges dont presume to tell the Irish government who it gives entry visas to. The Dems want immigrants because they tend to vote Democrat.
The liberal Irish judges have it easy and I don’t think the courage and integrity shown in defiance of the US President is in any way comparable to the Irish modern day judge that sometimes struggles to identify the difference between a traffic ticket, white collar crime and murder, rape and serious career criminality. Just saying…
Rosa, this isn’t the courts going against the government. It’s an equally powerful branch of the government questioning the legality of an order made by one of the other branches. If they rule it constitutional then that’s two branches and it’s safe. If not it’s back to the drawing board. Of they’re so eager to get this into legislation then they should go through the normal channels and get Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell to prioritise
@Dave O Keeffe: Well pointed out Dave, but there are three distinct and separate branches or “powers”.A fundamental principle of the United States government, whereby powers and responsibilities are divided among the legislative branch – Gov, executive branch – police/army, and judicial branch.
Love it, USA now stands for United Circus of America
@Patrick Reenan: OK, my reply is a bit long, but please read and comment.,—-  In Ireland,  a travel ban like this would be subject to a judicial review in the High Court.    That Review can only take place on the granting of leave under Section 20 of rule 84 of the rules.   So there are 2 hurdles to cross and only one court to decide the issue.   It seems that in the US, any one of the courts of the 50 states can quash a decision of the President  unless it goes through Congress.  —  So, say in Ireland, government makes a Statutory Instrument banning travel from Japan.. Anyone can take a JR and lets say its overturned.  lets say it a finely fought case and the chances of winning is 50/50.       ——-    In the USA, any one of 50 courts can quash the executive order and if finely fought, the chances of winning in one  in 50/50  or 25/50.  So it is nearly certain if a case were taken in 5 or 6 states, one will win and it will be blocked.
@eoin o mahony: yes distinct and separate but each designed to have just enough power to challenge the other, that’s what’s happening now. Also, army is executive branch and police is judicial.
Trump might be gone before Enda Kenny at this rate.
@Colin Moran: I doubt he’ll last the summer at this rate. His Presidency is lurching from one gaffe to the next at a ferocious pace. His Fanboys will have to go back to listening to their Infowars podcasts, LOL!
Trump will be in a mickey fit tomorrow because of this. Hide Edna….hide!
@Paul Furey: Ive got a baaaaaddd feeling about Enda meeting Trump
We might be all gone before Kenny actually goes.
Did Trump order the ban on the red thumbs too? Scandalous totalitarian carry on. Viva la Red Thumb.
I just red thumbed you to cheer you up.
What a great article (sarcasm). On what grounds was it halted? How was it seen to be unconstitutional? Unless there’s a legitimate reason it’s just the action of an activist judge undermining the electoral choice of the American people. I hate defending Trump but most people seem to leave logic at the door when discussing him
@Awkward Seal: on the grounds that it is a work around way of doing the same unconstitutional thing the last one was ruled against for. Before anyone says anything that’s not my opinion that’s the actual reason for the suspension
Nonsense. Previously it was because they included a clause specifically favouring religious minorities and because they were cancelling visas already granted. If Obama issued this order as is it wouldn’t have even made the news
@Awkward Seal: guessing you didn’t read the part where I said it wasn’t my opinion. There are also 4 refugees in one state and 2 in another calling for its revocation due to it being unconstitutional to flat out deny their direct family members entry to America
@Bingobango: It seems there are publishing my posts (not replies)   but deleting posts which are replies)
@Awkward Seal: An activist judge?? He’s doing his job of upholding the constitution. Leaving logic at the door would be to assume that the judge is somehow allowed to operate outside his powers or is allowed to halt bans without legitimate reason!
His presidency is a shambles. Can’t see it lasting another 6 months.
LOOOOOL is all I can say
Is great to see the judges stand up to this tyrant.
Now we get the inevitable toys being flung out of the pram response…
His secretary for defence just also said climate change was real during a senate hearing, expect the trump deflection machine to start winding up again for both of these
Judge Derek Watson is another Obama appointee. He again comes from the liberal 9th Circuit, which the Right call the 9th Circus. 80% of its rulings get overturned. When Gorsuch gets onto the Supreme Court the ban will be upheld.Reading through the ruling its constitutionally questionable to me that the Judge raises campaign statements and the Giuiliani interview – which related to the First travel ban – as justification. Also the Establishment Clause as a basis for this ruling doesnt make sense. Yes these countries are Muslim, but 91% of Muslims dont live there, and green card holders are exempt, while family members are entitled to an appeal. Also the plaintfiff said the ban would stop his mother in law (!) from visiting. The DOJ pointed out he hadnt visited her in 12 years.This will be overturned.Text of ruling here.http://www.politico.com/f/?id=0000015a-d421-db68-a97b-d5e934210000
Last time trump challenged the 9th circuit 2 of the judges that heard the challenge where republican appointees still lost . Trump then attached judges ,again, then dropped the travel ban.
@bmul: Yes but under the “blue slip rule”, a Senator has the right to veto the appointment of a federal judge from his state. All the West coast states have only Democrat Senators. In practice that means that when a Republican gets appointed to the 9th Circuit, they are very much on the liberal end of that party.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_slip
@Rosa Parks: Other than Alaska I mean.
But still republican appointees
@bmul: Robart was a Republican appointee. This Hawaii Judge is not. One third of the federal bench are Obama appointees, and overall 51% are Democrat appointees.
Did Obama do anything illegal appointing those judges ? If not what is your point !
@bmul: My point is that the ruling seems based on politics rather than the law.
Trump has used lots of excuses for decisions judges have made against him not once was it the law
@Rosa Parks: This ruling would once again be upheld by the 9th Circuit, assuming the Administration appeals to them, which it may well not. They are entitled to file cert with the Supreme Court immediately but again, I’m not certain they would hear the case without a 9th seated Justice, which won’t be happening anytime soon. The Republicans would have to remove the Filibuster entirely to get him confirmed, which McConnell is unlikely to do. It strips both him, his party and the Senate as a whole of power and surrenders it to the Executive. Don’t see how Trump can get that done in the current environment of him poisoning everything.As for the 9th Circuit, they hear the most cases, by far, of any Federal Court and cover the most liberal states. Which means a better pool for conservatives to cherry pick winners from. As such, this argument very much cuts both ways.All of this said, even the current Supreme Court could potentially rule 5-3 against this bill. Roberts has previous on breaking with party lines on matters of social justice and the appeal to centrism. See his majority decision on the Obamacare case for example.
@John Considine: The CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin and Professor Alan Dershowitz both criticised the judges ruling a few moments ago. The problem with this ruling is that they are citing election campaign statements as justification rather than the text of the travel ban. Campaign statements and slogans dont have the force of law.
@Rosa Parks: Hmmm, I’m surprised at such commentary and would suggest they may not have been well prepared, given short notice.I say this because Justice Watson clearly cited 10th Circuit (a body whose decisions do carry the force of law) precedent from the previous order in regard to this. Their ruling was that any future “travel ban” should “be purposeful enough for an objective observer to know, unequivocally, that the government does not endorse religion. It should be public enough so that people need not burrow into a difficult-to-access legislative record for evidence to assure themselves that the government is not endorsing a religious view.”Justice Watson clearly felt this bar was not met, a matter of opinion within his discretion. Which means the 9th Circuit would be very unlikely to uphold an appeal based on an error in law, which is the only appeal that stands a chance of removing injunctive relief prior to a full hearing of the facts. A Justice is entitled to grant such injunctive relief as they feel is necessary and appropriate to protect the status quo prior to a full hearing in any case where immediate potential harm can be demonstrated.And like I said, there isn’t a full Supreme Court in situ that could be appealed to instead. This Order is just as dead as the last one, or at the very least it won’t be coming into effect this year or for the first half of next.
@Rosa Parks: you are forgetting that the banning of these six countries makes no sense- they have not caused any American deaths through terrorism and this ban will do nothing to protect against terrorists. It will however further convince these countries that America is the enemy of Islam and add fuel to the fire of radicals all around the world
@Rosa Parks: You should get a job as an advisor – you seem to know more than the actual judges about US law.
@Rosa Parks: What does it matter which side they are? The law is the law.
@Rosa parks – You might care to read the constitution first. It’s only right that the words of Trump and his cronies condemn him. Straight from the orange horses mouth as it were.
Seconds out!!! Round 2!
It’s like watching tennis: Trump…Judge…Trump…Judge…Trump…Judge
Has he not been impeached yet!!!
Soon, give it a few months.
Honestly I’m not a Trump fan but that kind of thinking is silly. Trump has survived so much already you underestimate him to your peril. I still haven’t ruled out a second term!
The true fact is Trump contradicts himself, just look at his twitter comments. He just has to blame himself, by stating that this is not a Muslim ban.
@Ossi Fritsche:  Aw C’mon, didn’t you hear he just quoted his favourite Irish proverb,written by none other than a member of the 94% Islamist tribe The Nupe. He’s clearly softening his stance, unless the Russians hacked his scriptwriter, lol.
I don’t need to worry what shows to watch anymore. Just watch the trumpshow
@Sinead: There’s no show like a Do show
Ha ha! Tool
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/8/1182“Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate. ”Seems as if he’s well within his rights to block people from wherever he wants.
@Methodical Insanity: “Seems as if he’s well within his rights to block people from wherever he wants.”These two words below have come back to bite him ‘bigly’ :”Muslim Ban’
But it’s not a Muslim ban. Plenty of Muslim majority countries including some of the most populous ones, such as Pakistan, Indonesia, Nigeria, etc, aren’t banned. And in the case of the countries which are banned, any non-Muslim minorities from them are also banned. Besides, it shouldn’t matter anyway even if it was because it literally says “any class of aliens”, so he can ban whomever he wants.
Let no one worry the man from the Bogs of Mayo (a lovely place) will fix that Trump fellow,he said he would before he left with the big bowl of grass,
Brilliant another kick in the ass for the bo. Cks
Personally I’m delighted the red thumbs are gone. It does nothing for the self esteem of multi account trolling creeps such as myself.
@bi_polar_troll: Aw, feeling sad that the gig is up for you? Ha ha!
@OpenBorders: They are gone because the Journal.ie were rigging them against Trump supporters like me and got caught out when the outpouring of grief on the Rescue 116 tragedy  received a level of shocking condemnation with red thumbs down..  100% of all contributors, trolls and all were genuinely saddened and  “NOT  ONE”  behaved disrespectfully.   The computer was programmed to give red  thumbs down to selected contributors like me and it failed to identify that  tread topic was different, unique.  Journal administration panicked and fearful we would investigate, they changed the entire system.      Its a rigged medium.   Several good contributors are banned.
@The Crant: yes they changed the entire format in a split second decision with immediate effect. Tesco have a special on tinfoil at the moment BTW
@The Crant: so, you’re posts are being deleted and also appearing twice, very interesting. Good to know that they changed the entire system on a whim, in an instant though. To be fair it was an impressively swift turnaround. Hope you stocked up on the tinfoil
@The Crant: You must be very important.
@the Crant – Trump supporters seem to like crying Wolf, have you been “wiretapped” too???
Has froze….? Seriously?
He’ll just come up with a new one tomorrow
Don’t know what is going on with deleted posts?.   What I said was, that if this case were in Ireland  by Judicial Review and the chances of the applicant winning were 40%, then it would probably be lost.    In the USA any one of 50 state Judges can rule on it,   40% of 50 =20.  So in 50 courts, the chances of the ban being overturned is  so high, that if a few cases are taken one is bound to win.Its a strange system,   In Ireland you can fast track a case to the commercial court, I would think Trump will introduce similar laws there
My name is Meanie West , Am from UK,i never believe there will ever be asolution to my relationship problem with my lover. my lover called smithMoore threw me out of his house and brought in another lady who he nowfeels the only best for him. until one day i receive a phone call from afriend in the city that my man is going out on a date with another woman intown, i told her i am also surprise too, because since smith Moore has leftme he hardly think nor call me. so after some few days my friend calledMartha called me and told me that she has found a man that is verypowerful, and he is a great herbalist from Africa, truly we all knows thatAfricans are blessed with so much herbal voodoo powers which they use tohelp much people, so he told me that the man name is prophet oyinbo , thatshe will forward his email address for me so that i can contact him forhelp, so truly she sent me prophet oyinbo email address and i contacted himthat faithful day. he mailed me after a great while that my man will beback to me if only i believe on his work,so after 25hrs i receive a phonecall from smith Moore, and he started begging that i should please forgivehim against all he had done to me.. he begged me of breaking my heart andletting the other lady a new heart. he promise me never to let go. now iand Smith Moore are now planning to get married as soon as possible. we arebrought back with the great powerful love spell and blinded with prophetoyinbo spell, we are happy and glad. so i thank you sir for the great helpyou offer to me, because i think today this might be the only ways andmeans i can ever thank you of your work.. i am glad. you can contact himfor a love spell today at:prophetoyinbojesus@gmail.comthank you sir.Email him on:prophetoyinbojesus@gmail.com
@Meanie West: bring back the red thumbs. We need them for posts such as this
Doesn’t go far enough.
Judge Bybee dissenting from the Washington temporary restraining order on the first travel ban.http://online.wsj.com/public/resources/documents/2017_3015_9th_dissent.pdf
@Rosa Parks: Yeah, like I’d trust a download from you and your notoriously safe sources
@Rosa parks – jeez will you give it up, I believe you’ve been soundly spanked by John, Dave and Niamh
This is a test post,  I posted on this topic and it appears to be deleted.     Not sure yet.
Ha-ha!
Is this Enda Trump & Donald Kenny everybody is talking about?
Bam! Smack right in the kisser lol
Well… let’s not get into what the English need to apologise for, eh Nige?
@Cillian McCormick: And China, Austria and Fiji…
@Cillian McCormick: he picked out enda though, not an entire nation of people in an xenophobic display.
@Cillian McCormick: what have got here dicater.
@Scundered: what have got here dicater.
@Cillian McCormick: Only Blair did apologise (ridiculously imo) for the famine.Kenny and Varadkar shot themselves in the foot with this one. Kenny should now be asked what exact comments Trump made that he deemed racist.
For someone who bangs on about the ‘independence’ of the nation state he loves telling others what they should do an awful lot
@Clever Jake you can say anything about Farage one thing you have to admit he won the day on Brexit.
@Cillian McCormick: did bell enda make a joke about coloured people a few years ago?
Cillian, do you mind explaining how one man’s comments to another necessitates lumping 53 million people alongside him?
If Kenny really meant what he said, he should have the guts to say it to Trump’s face!
Here’s hoping Donald hasnt forgot ☺
The Donald does not forget these things. Remember what he did to Mitt Romney!
@John III Sobieski: Muted.
I’d be careful Open, it might turn into you just talking to yourself.
Kenny makes a full time job out of deciding who has to answer questions and who doesn’t. He isn’t capable of much more than that.
“How mush more insulting can ya be than to call someone a racist?”….. well ya could be like Nigel there and be racist towards people, that’s probably worse in fairness
@Liz Finn:Can you show a link of him being racist?
Don’t need to supply a link, just YouTube any of his soundbites around the time of the brexit referendum, there’s one particularly inflammatory one just after jo cox was murdered.
@Liz Finn: So what your saying is that you can’t back up your claim.
Nope, wot I’m saying is that there’s a wealth of material there for people to choose from….
@Liz Finn: what was the racist incident? Was it when he cheated (allegedly) on his German wife? Or when he did so (allegedly) with a French woman?
@Liz Finn:Nonsense. Either provide an example of his racism or stop it, you’re making yourself look bad when you faff around with the facts.
@Liz Finn: There is a link somewhere about Enda Kenny who told a joke in public about a man who was black but he used a word to describe him with a word that began with an “N”.  Good old Kenny has no idea how to keep his gob shut.
@Liz Finn: You cant supply a link because it does not exist . Farage is alot of thing but i have never heard him utter anything  racist
@Robert Preston: I guess you haven’t listened to much he has said then, have you?  Try this (and remember, The Telegraph is not a newspaper for soft liberal lefties)http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/nigel-farage/11467713/No-dogs.-No-blacks.-No-Irish-is-now-Ukip-policy.html
His whole political standpoint is racist!
A great many political and other leaders bad mouthed him during the campaign.They now have to deal with him. Maybe they could think before they talk?
@Damocles:Are you talking about Donald Trump?Because no-one needs to deal with Farage now. Even the Tories wouldn’t go near him with a barge pole. He’s desperate to stay relevant.
It seems comments, including mine, are being deleted quicker under this new system.
@Beachmaster: It`s shameful what they`ve done to it alright. It`s all part of the new wave of censorship that`s sweeping Europe. Might have to knock the Journal on the head if this keeps up.
I love the new system, it reduces the impact of alt right up/down voting blocs, highlights the account age to denote throwaway accounts and allows muting for easy ignoring of the folks repeating the same agenda babble over and over on every article.Well done to the journal team for saving the comments section!
@Clever Jake: Only Breitbart reports the truth, didn’t you know? Everything else is fake news.
@Beachmaster: I think I will soon be a victim too.     There is another site called the Coffeebreak.ie,  I have not managed to register yet, but I will get help and try it.   As Alex Jones says, there is a war on for our minds.
Is it April Fools instead of St Patrick’s day he’s going for!!!
new forum layout sucke unless confusion is the aim of the gameperson who decided this should go home now
How about concentrating on what was said rather on who said it. Our fool of a leader insulted and dismissed Trump as future POTUS to keep the liberals and looney left satisfied. Of course Kenny should apologise! Remember, apart from the US and UK and a few others, Ireland is just a mere rock in the Atlantic to the world’s nations (and that most DEFINITELY includes Germany).
@Richard III: Just like the uk, calling it the mainland is just one big laugh, get real, wake up & smell the coffee, brits are just grabbers as everybody knows, over populated island full of foreigners
I hate Nigel but he is right…
@Paul: When was the last time Donald Trump apologised for any of the inflammatory things he says? At least Enda was speaking in full sentences and correct
Has the Journal always published every article about Farrage with an unflattering photo?
@Clever Jake: okay, that’s interesting, but how is relevant to what I brought up? Or do you just reply to everyone randomly with responses that have nothing to do with what they were talking about?
@Clever Jake: Ah so it is becausr you think Farage is a Nazi and anyone with beliefs or a political position different to yours should be potrayed in a comical or unflattering way. Okay gotcha, hope you understand why all the right wing populists will potray all Liberals in such ways as they grow in base. Personally I do not agree with them doing it, therefore I hold myself to the same standard, aswell as not mischaracterising them as the most extreme nasty variant of their political leanings, as I would not like that to be done of me and would like to criticise it when or if it is done to me for my political beliefs in future. In know people like you is one of the reasons why the populist right os gainig traction?
@James Guinan: In fairness it does appear to be his normal pose.
Stall the ball for a second, the remain campaign was the one which was steeped in fear, primairly fear of the unknown, they campaigned no benefits for remaining, but grave consequences for leaving. The vast majority of the leave campaign was of hope, outside of the immigration issue, it was generally yes we can do such and such, positivity throughout, as silly and false many of the remain claims may have been, it certainly wasn’t akin to nazi propaganda blaiming a minority for the countries woes, rather blaiming the big government of the EU. I have to say, I disagree with your point here.
Okay, I’ll check it out, thanks.
Pot calling the kettle black
‘How much more insulting can you be than to call someone racist’Ummm by being a racist, Nigel.
Enda has shown  sub servient to foreign leaders at the drop of a hat or people in power. We have austerity designed in the German parliament approval and the budget  and allocation of migrants even though Ireland is not part of the Schengen agreement  given to Enda & Noonan to carry out the desires and whims of Merkel. Enda over in the UK canvassing for the UK to stay in the EU at the behest of Cameroon or with Cameron’s tacit approval. Addition of the Apple Tax  which the Irish government has refused to take but  continues to  delivers bad health, school, infrastructure, public transport and local communities ripped art with homelessness all added to the mix. Comments by Enda hoping his friend  Hillary gets the role added to another list of gaffes the the poodle of europe politics chief Quisling has added to his list of continued failures as a so called  kapo of Ireland and never a leader like the other vermin that reside in the glorified county council offices win Kildare street.
Nigel Farage is absolutely right on this.
@John Reid: He may be, Enda owes us an apology and for blaming us for killing the celtic tiger.
Enda Kenny is a Band-Wagon coward like the rest of them, Farage is right, regardless of what you think of him.
its delusions of grandeur to think US voters were going to take orders from Enda last year or any leader of a small country (except Israel of course). On the substantive issue I strongly disagree with Endas criticism of Trump.
@Rosa Parks: Enda’s criticism of Trump was merely performative and done with the presumption that he wouldn’t win the election. Remember that this is the same man who was furious when Clare Daly criticised Obama, because you don’t dare speak ill of an American president.Now that Trump has actual power, Kenny will grovel like May did before him and it will be painful to watch.
Let’s be honest here, Donald’s doing Ireland favour by meeting Enda Kenny on Paddy’s Day. Any other world leader would just cancel the meeting and tell him to take his begging bowl and shove it where the sun don’t shine.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: That’d be easy, Trumps backside looks big enough to park a rocket in it and I hope Enda does shove it up there?
Such a provocative statement does show up Farage’s fear that Donald might be influenced by Enda who for all his detractors is actually very personable and persuasive guy. Enda meeting Donald is a very important small first step in US EU relations. Farage’s fear is that Donald might be more pro EU as a result of this meeting and that would not be good for the Brexiteers so he wants to spoil that chance by provoking negativity.
Google:  enda kenny n word jokes Irish independent  2002.
Bloody Sure he should apologise,like him or hate him trump does what he says at least he has that,enda kenny lies his way through his career and takes no responsibility, I feel sorry for Trump having to meet that excuse of a leader,
Why was he on Seán O’Rourke in the first place, apart from as a provocative troll to generate headlines?
Kenny should apologize but he wont.  I wonder how much of our money did he pay towards Hillaries campaign?
Wrong you’re in the hashtag guys
@Moll: yep – they’re assuming we all possess a ‘sorry’.
crap our pm should not be passing remarks about a democratically elected president of the USA Mr Donald Trump Nigel is wright
@James Moore: he wasn’t elected at the time … and why do you think it wrong that a politician tell the truth? ;)
The more people publish his inane stupidity the longer he will keep spouting it.
No bother for dopey Kenny to stick his nose into Brexit.As usual the Mayo blunderbuss will get it wrong.
Why was he on the radio? He’s nobody. Stop giving these idiots free publicity.
@Mark Gearey:Nigel Farage is a nobody? Right. It’s not as if him and his party were the catalysts for one of the biggest political events in the past twenty years.
@Malachi: Nigel F is still a nobody. However, good on him for putting Enda on the spot.
Why does the comment section different, where are the red thumbs? Don’t tell me I have to become more fluent in hipster
When the Journal gives space to an English lying lager lout it really  has hit rock bottom.
@Fergus Moroney: lager lout? Dont think so. Like him or hate him he is correct about mass immigration!
Being a raciest is worse
How dare he tell our prime minister what to do. He shouldn’t have been allowed on our national broadcaster. R.T.E. should know better.
@Andy Ring: I’ll tell you who shouldn’t have been allowed on Irish radio: Michael Haydn- torture advocate- former CIA director. PK show 2011.
Considering Journal that your journalistic skills are very limited and that the best bit of reading the Journal was the comment section I think I will be giving your APP a miss in future. It’s gone very Un User friendly. Bye now !!
We simply don’t need Farage to tell us our business any more than Trump needs Kenny to tell him his!
@James: what an unkind thought James. Noonen is a master of his discipline. Farage belongs in the garage with the garbage. If sneakys like him were voted for around 1946 the Second World War would still be smouldering.
Hard to take any recommendations seriously coming from a coward who ran from his responsibilities when he got the vote he wanted.
@Eileen Nolan:What responsibilities is he running from now? He isn’t a part of the British government, who are negotiating Brexit, so it’s not his responsibility to implement it.He’s still an MEP and he has been actively tearing apart the European Parliament even after the vote.
Farage should mind his own f&€king business.
He’s just a trouble maker nothing else.And Trump us a racist.so it’s only the truth.
Tax money eating life long career politician has opinion about other tax money eating life long career politician.  Give both a long walk on a short pier and carry on.
He said the UK is now “the biggest export market in the world for the Eurozone” and he said the EU “needs free market access to us even more than we need it the other way around”.Idiot can’t even do simple arithmetic apparently. Or he just lies like a rug.
Hmmmm people who live in glass houses etc …………
I think he needs to keep his nose out of business that doesn’t concern him, besides, Trump is a racist, a homophobe and a misogynist, so no need to apologise for speaking the truth.
First time I ever agreed with Kenny
I’d be offended if I gave a stuff about his opinion.Jog on Forage , you’re a has been.
Farage is, to use his own terms, an odious creature whose only concern his his personal advancement. He spends his time lurking around Trump haunts looking for a job or a free meal. He might find some friends if moved further south to the guys in the conical hats.
Farage is an insignificant member of a dangerously nationalist and right wing party in the U.K. He is not even its leader but is only an MEP. He was able to exploit the fears of many in the U.K., with lies or to use Trumpisms, fake news/alternative facts.Why is RTÉ giving him a platform?
Wow these new layouts for comments suck – 3 times the scrolling, replies hidden under buttons, and no very important red thumbs. Disappointing.
Nigel you are the forgotten man why don’t you just P— off and enjoy what life you have left
HA Ha Ha Ha………
Fargey Bargey, really? You’re one to talk
Kenny: I’m not into English classes Reporter : But you are a teacher All of the reporters questions that made kenny look a fool are left out
And why exactly is Nigel Farage speaking out on this?  Farage is a pathetic creature wanting Trump to give him a belly rub.
Cannot believe the ignorance and hypocrisy on here. When someone does not hold a valid opinion. They always use the word racist. As if that is the answer. You are all standing up for a fella from Mayo who made good and sold you down the river.
Nigel you look just like a greasy puff pastry sausage roll.  I deduced this from a photo of you on the election trail in your last campaign. Look it up, the photo is there of you eating it.And the Lama Smiled…
@Shanners:Bosco.
Enda reflects the Globalism of FG. A globalist lectures other countries – since they dont believe there should even be countries – just a one world government.
Loved it when niall farages hand got stuck in Donald trumps pocket a few months back…
Nigel go away. You are a silly stupid man who voted to abolish your own job. If Trump hangs around with you is a plank.
@Brendan Keegan:He voted to abolish his own job and this makes him stupid? What? He happily admitted that he is the turkey voting for christmas – he doesn’t care about keeping his job. It’s the politicians who only care about keeping their job we should be worried about. What a vacuous point.
Why is this muck even given space
Did Donald ask if Kenny got the tax payers money back from Hillary yet?
Farage says england should be independent but when scotland want it its a big joke. All about what they want and not about whats good for your country
He’s lucky Trump is going to meet him to accept his bowl of Shamrock after what Enda said about him. And we know how petulant and stubborn The Donald can be . Of course , Enda said that when he did n’t think Trump had a breeze of a chance of winning.He just better suck up, and be nice ..has to be done ..for Ireland’s Sake ..
Nobody has to answer to, or explain themselves in any way to that idiot, Farage.
Farage should mind his own business
He is such a fool
This page provides the latest hacking news, exploits and vulnerabilities long description for ethical hackers. We emphasize devotion to creative growth and the fostering of professional relationships with the welcoming staff. You can start making $5000.00 per day without getting caught and you can also use this opportunity to shop online!! Welcome to GHOST HACKING FOUNDATION! G.H F Hackers are professional hackers for hire that provides professional hacking services We clone this cards using the grabbed data into real ATM cards which can be used to withdraw at the ATM or swipe at stores and POS. We sell this cards to all our customers and interested buyers worldwide, the card has a daily withdrawal limit of $5000 on any ATM and its loaded up the range of $50,000.00 – $20,000,000.00 United State Dollars spending limit.If you’re interested in buying ATM Blank Cards, Credit Cards or CVV or Dumps then contact us:ghosthackingfoundation.hk@gmail.comTel: 917-832-1009
@Fank Pulman Are these 4 inept or corrupt?
Any one notice the way the journal has changed, it was grate for getting a felling of what the rest of Ireland was thinking. Not any more they seem to want to control us now and take away our options, well for me it’s the end of the line I won’t be reading or using it anymore ..red thumb from me.
@Francid Dooley: Bye
@Francid Dooley:  I think i’ll be joining you
@sly dog: Bye
That’s it for me no red thumb journal goodbye deleting your app.
@Mac Dara Powell: This is…. not good.
Actually two lines where removed from his speech. The second read in response to the new journal update: Taoiseach Enda Kenny said ”The Journal acted entirely Inappropriately ” with regard to the removal of the red thumb option.
Fight the red thumb purge. Needs an alliance of former sworn enemies on here – brexit and trump are mere sideshows compared to this travesty #solidarity #fakethumbs
@Goldberg: Can somebody please tell me what the little blue circle means next to our names mean? I miss the red thumbs!
@Joe Conlon: it means you’ve been commenting for 2 years…
@Kate Flaherty: Thanks Kate
If I want up to date or properly spelt news I don’t use this site – its nothing without the red thumbs and the slagging
@Goldberg: I’ve red thumbed my last halawa article :’(
@Goldberg:Wally will feel good only getting ‘thumbs up’.
Where’s Wally
I suggest we stage a dirty protest in the city centre until the Journal red thumb button is brought back. C’mon people let’s make it happen, dirty bums for red thumbs.
I’m with you brother – je suis thumb rouge
This red thumb thing seems to be a big deal for a lot of people. Was it (and it’s green brother) actually taken seriously? I certainly never did
Journal will be deleted in 5 mins. Ya cant even access rugby news anymore from the sections bar without having to download the 42 app. No red thumbs, only a green thumb. FFS. Goodbye, not missed.
Enda made no tough choices,he could have eased up on the poor,the low paid,and take more from those who could afford a decrease in salary but still live a luxurious life but he battered the poor into poverty.
@@mdmak33: kenny is more German than Irish,his treatment of his own people over the German financial surrender was nothing short of traitorous.Hospitals,transport, and justice etc have been decimated under his Walter Mitty leadership.
Enda Kenny arriving to the Whitehouse is the equivalent of Father Stone heading to Craggy Island for his summer hols.. You can just imagine Trump wanting to talk about Women and American Football and Kenny sitting there with nothing to say..
People can say all they want about enda but I think hes ultimately a decent guy. When you consider the fck up of a country ireland was in 2009 and where we are now (Economy improving, gay marriage is legal, people actually respect our country again) he has done a good job. If it werent for those tough choices we could still be like greece right now. Years from now he will appreciated as a good leader
Nobody respects Ireland
@danielplainview: Red thumb.
Well they should. We are standing on our own two feet. We are self-sufficient again. We have an incredible culture. Why wouldnt we be respected?
@danielplainview:  i agree with you on that. best leader in years and a role model for other eu leaders. yes there have feck ups in the past but enda kenny has got this country running again.
How sad that bitterness seems to be a badge of honour for some. I think Ireland is a great place and getting better all the time. If more people spent their energy for positive betterment than negative belittlement then it would be even better again!
Bet the sneaky hure is sweating with the thoughts of meeting Trump,the Soldiers from his Atm story will be there just in case a plant pot goes for him.
This is rubbish. Reading this on the old app and everyone just has green thumbs. How does that reflect the views of the readership? FREE THE RED THUMB
@Anne Marie Devlin: Suggest we start reporting comments instead of red thumbing until they get the message…
No red thumb = no fun
@james. Good idea
Or upgrade and join us? (I actually still have the red option but who cares if it is used or not… there was always a predictable pattern anyway given the outraged thought police on here when presented with an alternative opinion to their own solely correct one)
LOL! I’d say leo loved finding that out. If anyone in FF had the sense they were born with they’d pull the plug over the water charges and go to the people, before FG have a chance to choose a new leader and do a PR blitz.
‘Kenny told reporters he didn’t call Trump a racist,’Must have been the Yank he met outside the American Embassy.
Sorry, just checking my years on this app
Should see his interview explaining his racist remark about Trump,he made a real fool of himself.everyone knew he would mess up except enda.
@@mdmak33: what did he say
@mdmal33. Not as bad as his interview supporting Noonan. It was like Spicer explaining trump’s latest tweet.
@Anne Marie Devlin:  noonan should be locked up at this stage for his Nama vulture fund assistance,a leader with ballz is badly needed.
Reporter asked him is Trump racist ,enda mumbled,waffled,and said a person using racist WORDS does not make them a racist.Made a clown of himself.
I still have red thumbs
Me too, what’s the story? Do most people just let apps automatically update themselves without approval or something?
Seems like it! Could be a lot on desktop though. Anyone recommend good news apps?
Terrible news journal – sounds like you are down about 14 readers. Will someone pls think of the advertisers.
@Markonline: I updated with approval.
Not liking this new journal. Its rubbish.
Sure why should he resign? Didn’t they all say what a wonderful Taoiseach he is, and how fortunate we are to have the benefit of his International experience? Leo and Simon aren’t ready ready to lead just yet! They can’t even handle asking him to stand down, how could they handle Merkle or Maye?
Trump will realised this chap is a donkey and in return will put a travel ban on the Irish
Deleting app till red thumbs come back.
Fake news?
Cue jaws theme
Just do one kenny!
Who cares
Embarrassment Kenny
next conservative pinnate please, pop goes the enda. David Cameron was just as satisfying :)
Fook the red thumbs! I got red thumbed out of it yesterday glad they’re gone!!
IMO, very disappointed with it. Not enough scenes around the country and too much time spent on the artists. Ireland sells itself with its raw beauty and rugged landscapes. It needed more of that to catch my imagination. I just don’t see it drawing people in who know nothing about the country.
Stopped looking at it after the fourth artist. Was hoping to see some of the amazing scenery from around the island
Really don’t like the new look of the website.  It’s not the journal without the red thumbs – just a copy of Facebook.  Most people who comment are as pleased at getting red thumbs as they are at getting green thumbs.  Would imagine for the journal that it would also give you good insight into how many people are interacting with the site.Having to click in to read replies is also going to lose you readers.  Most people won’t be bothered which is a shame because it’s always amusing to read the comments of people going head to head.For anyone who’s using the app, you maybe haven’t noticed that the website version has changed and for me at least, it’s lost a lot of its identity
@Anne Marie Devlin: the red thumbs need to come back but I don’t miss having to scroll through 100+ replies to a troll
Did not get my juices flowing.
Would liked to have seen some raw young talent from our inner Cities instead of the likes of Bill Riverdance Wheelan. Too many smooth St Dublin voices for my liking. It’s almost too slick.
The journal really wanna annoy the journal commenters with these positive articles that shed a good light on Ireland more of these and we will have a meltdown
Ha Ha….Enda Kenny, story telling.
Not a good campaign. It lacked vibrancy. I couldn’t understand the point of the woman walking on the beach. Sure, the words are poetic, but the accompanying movie footage doesn’t match the poetry. It left me wondering just who the campaign is targeted at.
Total utter clichéd tripe.
Pretentious claptrap ….
Hey everyone, Eamonn from Criostal na Rinne is my Dad and I am really proud that he was selected this year to make the bowl. Not because of Trump. I disagree with pretty much everything he says and does. But because my father, having spent almost 50 years honing his craft, was selected by the Department of the Taoiseach. In Ireland today it can be really tough for small business owners, especially for those who are keeping traditional craft alive, in an age of mass produced, foreign made everything. So for crystal production in Ireland, employment – especially in the Gaeltacht regions and Waterford county this is important. If you’re in County Waterford call in and he’ll show you how his work is designed and hand cut.
@Sibéal Turraoin: An Rinne is one of the beautiful parts of Ireland and a place I visit throughout the year. Your father and some of the other local businesses in the area and great examples of what can be achieved in “remote” locations. I’d love to pop in at some stage when I’m in next in An Rinne and it’s good to know that he welcomes it. It’s a remarkable achievement and I’m delighted your family and community are playing a role in what is ultimately a celebration of the Irish story regardless as to who is in office on either side of the pond.
Sounds amazing, stunning work, what a skill, if i wandered into his work shop hed never get me out
@Jeni Moriarty: You should go sometime if you’re down there – he loves showing people how it’s made! :)
@Robespierre: Thank you! I’m really proud to see him being recognised for the work he does and not who’s getting it :)
@Sibéal Turraoin: Many a good night in Mooney’s.  Ring is a lovely spot.
@Sibéal Turraoin: Congragulations. Such a great honour.
@Rosa Parks: Thank you!! It is – delighted he’s getting the recognition for his work :)
‘Presented on behalf of the people of Ireland?!’You can count me out of that..
If it makes you feel better think of him receiving it on behalf of the people of the United States and we’re not actually giving it to him
And the first thing the Americans do is destroy the shamrock !!!!
This is the Donald we’re talking about!! He will have the probable IED destroyed (the bowl) and put the shamrock up for auction on eBay
Andy, me too!
@Andy Bennett: You are not included for any length of time The US president is not allowed gift that pose a bio threat so the shamrock is very quickly incinerated afterwards.
@Andy Bennett: You’d be happier if it was going to warmonger Hillary?
“The practice began in modest fashion in 1952 when then Irish ambassador to Washington John Hearne dropped in a box of shamrock to president Harry S Truman, who, as it happened, wasn’t there on the day.”
Jfk wasn’t president in 1953
Does kenny kneel when he gives it to trump?
Rise Sir Enda
He bends over.
How much did that cost??
Are the shamrocks grown in Ireland?
This particular shamrock was grown especially for him in Putin’s garden. He’ll definitely accept it. His mole told him all about it.
Great shamrock Folks , believe me , fantastic weed , much greener than the S€€t they gave fake Hillary and Obama .
Are you sure it’s not clover
As one of the “people of Ireland” I don’t wish Trump any luck. I think the sooner he and his cast of idiots are impeached, the better.
Only for democracy when you get the result you want eh?
Hope he gives it to him by pouring it over his golden locks!
What a thoughtful gift. Go go Enda. Make Ireland great again.
#NotInMyName
But it is.
Not in my name either
I’m sure Donald trump is just devastated to hear that.You didn’t vote for him, you didn’t have any right to vote in the US elections.However he was democratically elected by people who do have the right to vote.You mightn’t like it but you should respect it. You should respect democracy.
Doesn’t mention how much it costs
€7.99, with a free bag of crisps and soft drink if you sign up for email alerts.
The cringe .
I thought the irish lap dog met Trump last thursday & gave him the shamrock.
Now that’s puckering with style.
Any politician who labels trump as a sexual predator shouldn’t be a politician. They should look at all viable factors before making a statement. Not based on hear say or claims that were proven to be false. They are politicians not kids. They should use there resources before making insults like this. If an English MP said this about Enda kenny Imagine the outcome.
seriously does anyone care about this crap !
Nope.
The bowl itself is destroyed for safety concerns. But it’s nice to keep up our traditions and good relations with the US
Tradition and symbolism? Yes, very much. If Enda DIDN’T present it to Trump then you’d very quickly find out how much people cared.
That’s a fine lump of weed.
It’s a beautiful piece of crystal, but giving it to a philistine like Trump is really throwing pearls to swine…
I see FG bots…
Diddley yup a deedle Irish.
They burn the shamrock later the same day,, and its not Irish shamrock its grown in the states and handed over on Friday ,,
somewhere in the Whitehouse, there’s a bin full of old broken glass, and withered compost/shamrock
He will be waiting in lobby while Angela and Donald will be talking. Another Trump administration blunder.
I hope protesters don’t make a show of us and ruin this important occasion.
Replace them with four-leaf clovers. Trump won’t know the difference.
I dont think that Enda should be allowed down to the shop to get a pint of milk, and here he is presenting the pussy grabber with a bowl of our finest shamrock .Enda will mess it up  – wait an see .
Oh here’s me thinking Irish crystal was all a sham(rock)
A plastic bowl of shit would be more appropriate.
If someone gave that to me as a pressie it would go straight into the bin after they left.
Pearls before PoRCines as I said about Bush too.
Was right about Bush 2. Hope I’m not right again otherwise this is surely the Last Trump.  Might be better not with shamrocks but four leaf clovers.  Sure we can pick them from his golf course always remembering he’ll be billing us for them so not too manny
Drop it, drop it, drop it XD
#notinmyname#endatheroad
Beginning to think he has no intention of stepping aside.
I’d imagine Leo and Simon are shifting uncomfortably in their seats right now. Not a fan of Enda but anything that makes Leo uncomfortable is a silver lining.
I Agree ! He’s far to much of an Urban Dub for me ! When he speaks, you can tell that he sounds as if he has seldom been beyond Naas, Lucan, or Ashbourne ?!
So, what happened in the end to the government and Gardai colluding to abuse whistle blowers of being​ paedophiles? That’s just forgotten, is it? Wave little plastics flags, and say what a great guys enda/noonan/O’Sullivan were.
Storm in a tea shock
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more….
Would have been hilarious if he did not make it to the White House.
I’d like to thank Stella very much for not putting us all through kennys butt kissing speech about someone he never met or cared about.
So Angela and Edna are meeting Donald on St Patrick’s day!!! Edna told us he was the special one
Edna meets him on Thursday
@Symbolism yes but Friday is VERY important in Edna’s calendar as he gives the shamrock then!!! Don’t forget any world leader according to Edna’s  people would give  their right arm to see Trump on St Patrick’s day. But Angela can waltz right in that day too
Fine Gael will regret this long goodbye.
Yes. Just goes to show what fools they are
He would never have gotten a job with Napeleon – the Frenchman always asked his interviewees “are you luckee, Mon amie” and in fairness Kenny could only in truth answer “non ma Cherie l am poxed – actually!
Luck of the Irish
Hope he’s OK, important work this week….
Kennys PR men doing everything in their powers trying to convince the Irish people that he is not yesterday’s man.
Paul, the US wouldn’t notice he wasn’t Charlie. We think we’re SO important…totally irrelevant there. Just make Irish illegals, legal. We’re great craic….
Wasn’t so lucky then was it, Trump’s four-leaved clover.
He won’t even make that happen Frank, same every year for years with the Taoiseach in question threatens to have it out with the President regarding immigration status but nothing ever happens.
Is that chip that’s on your shoulder fank salted??
@Fank…Your joking, right?
Oh, how surprising ? But he actually is yesterday’s man !
A perfect storm for Enda?
Mean while Homer Simpson says he is willing to put up his long lost Irish Brother to help weather the storm :-) me thinks they just found a new characterIrish Knucklehead
Sideshow Enda…even the weather conspires against him!
Take the hint…
With a bit of luck the storm will last for months and this fool can’t get back to our shores.
It’s the meeeting of the two blond ambitions.
With a bit of bloody luck Stella will bury him in an avalanche of the white stuff & keep him over there
Another Whitewash !!
The storm is all the Snowflakes trying to stop the meeting.
Head less chicken
I remember doing that Boston to D.C. by train once and it was an monotonous journey. I never saw as many bats hanging from the trees . I bet Enda will be singing along to ‘like a bat out of hell I’ll be gone before morning comes’ He will appreciate the Wild Atlantic Way more after this.:-)
So? It’s not like I’m going or anything…
Lousy Smarch weather.
I wonder if they’ll keep him, we’ve no need for him here.
So Enda is plastering Ireland with giant wind mills to prevent globull warming which is not so global that it happens in America.
He can cry into his pint tonight the silly fool
Breaking news Kenny to dance ten hand reel with bowl of shamrock on his head and an emblem of a banished snake by Saint Patrick on his head at the White house.Mr Trump is learning how to say “Up Mayo” at the appropriate time Suckers more fake news!
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more…….
Storm in a tea shock
Not a care in the world.
@Gulliver Foyle:The Blarney goes down well in Amerikay.
I’d say he’s having great craic over there…..
@windbag: Future pension €135,000.00 per year I’m sure he’s happy out….
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more…….
Enda’s taking America by storm.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: proven bare faced liar would have been a more appropriate name to call him
You’re in a good mood today Emmett. Something wrong?
@Emmet O’Keeffe:More like a light drizzle
@Keelan O’neill:The joys of spring?
@Ó Connmhaigh:It’s a blizzard now.
Next question, what’s the Gaelic for lack of leadership?
Easpa ceannasaíochta
Enda teaching someone something? Sure that’s why they elected him in Castlebar to keeping him away from teaching.
Wait until he tells them, “he met a man” stories. Stuff of legend.
@Willie the kid: A man with 2 hands even. Full of pints of course.
Why has he ‘only got weeks in the left in the role’, Let him stick it out, before we let another one get on the pension gravy train FFS.
Well at least he’s good with people and flowerpots.
The Diarmuid Gavin of the political world.
Politicians from irl celebrating Paddy’s day around the world for the week maybe we should have week off also with full pay lol
Because of course anybody who travels for work is having a whale of a time and it never gets old.
That’s why he became a politician,,, he was feck all use as a teacher
The word Taoiseach is pronounced Tee-shock, the tongue behind the teeth not between the teeth as in th, idiot couldn’t even get the pronunciation of his title correctly……..
@Kate Flaherty: Sure he can’t even do the job, we can’t expect him to know how to pronounce the title properly!
@Adrieanne, true, he’s one pompous git!…..
@Kate Flaherty: Enda at last have found his legacy at last,  a rubbish Taoiseach but you can teach Americans have to pronounced his job inaccurately.  He is not our Thee Shock,  he barely came close to winning over Find Gael members.
@Kate Flaherty:  That Irish T with the broad vowel does not occur in English. The Th, as pronounced by Irish people and  Americans comes closest. The way the English (BBC types) use either their T or their Th wouldn’t do at all, at all.
I’m from Castlebar, and everybody says it as “th” so next time don’t think everybody says everything the same in Irish
@Negan: so u are to blame for all this  :-)
Kate – it depends on which dialect you are using. The pronunciation you describe is more common to Leinster Irish. The “tongue between the teeth” pronunciation of Taoiseach is more common in the west of Ireland.
i.e. “TH” as in “oath” and “shuck” rather than “shock”.
In his case it’s pronounced ‘thick $h1t’
Only weeks to go as an Taoiseach says who?!… Sure he did say he’d deal with the issue after St Patrick’s day but he didn’t say which St Patrick’s day! ☘️
You’re saying he only has weeks left but I highly doubt it, I wouldn’t be surprised if he was visiting Trump again next year
I want him to stay so we don’t end up paying a second Taoiseach pension to another p&€#%k at the end of this government
Let’s hope Trump gets the pronunciation right….On Thursday…
@JoeyJoeJoeJrShabadoo: Your a dick
How do, Shane?
Cringe
Will Americans understand the “man with two pints in his hand” alternative truth?
If the reporter has said “Thick ” many would have agreed with him ,Dead man walking in Irish politics ,heading for European pay off next, for his betraying the Irish people
He should have stuck to the teaching. He would have made a far greater contribution to society.
It’s I’m a robbing f@@ker that single handed killed a country is what he should be teaching ppl to say
*saved a country. FYP
@A.M: the only thing he saved was himself and his elf  :-) oflynn ring a bell   same shit different time
Why would he do that ? He is not our taoiseach .So he tell anyone about what they did with McCabe ?
liar and thief, not a care for the normal people of Ireland.He should be put against a wall and shot for treason
Is it not pronounced as “gob-shite”?
He actually looks terrible. Same pot belly syndrome that Midget D Higgins is getting from the rich lazy lifestyle.
How rude is that Kenny trying to be funny .Irish tax payers money again
The plastic paddies love it.
The conversation probably went something like this “it rhymes with sinkhole……”
Going going gone
We hate him as much as you’s might hate trump. may be more
Leader of ireland me ARSE, not for long there, you can have you Guinness your pipe and shut up and sit on ya little stool
More goobledegook talk
Toadie is far easier to pronounce
Surely Enda could have bought a new coat for the occasion. He looks poured into that one.may be he needs a few bob.
It’s a birthday early they’re celebrating the day.
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more….
Use the Criminal Assets Bureau.
And the Organised Crime Squad from another jurisdiction.
How about asking the pope not to come here next year till this is done… Why bring the boss of this organisation?Pressure mounts on Church to ‘pay up’ on sexual abuse redress as Taoiseach says ‘get on with it’Taoiseach Enda Kenny said the Church needs to reflect on the commitment it made in 2002.
@LITTLEONE:Watch when the Pope arrives. All the politicos queuing up to kiss his ring (excuse the pun) like he is some mythical being from another world.When in fact, he’s the leader of an organisation that raped, abused, tortured and killed people and children on this island and all over the world for generations. And this same organisation gladly let it happen facilitated by Mr.Kenny’s predecessors.What a sick world we live in.
Totally agree. CAB should be deployed to take what is owed.
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more…….
The Pope is due to visit next year. Best thing to do at this stage is to tell him not to bother his arse.Unless of course he is bringing a very big brief case full of cash.
@Tweed Cap: If he does come and instead of him riding around his motorcade waving to his minions why not have him meet every single survivor or relative of any deceased person who suffered sexual abuse at the hands of the church of the years? I can’t see the state having the balls to tell him not to come.
You’re right there is no shortage of drones here to welcome “Papa” with open arms. The same cabbages who support the church every week by putting more money in the basket. Despite this, they still complain about the churches ongoing default re compensation to its rape and murder victims.
@Tweed Cap: i suggest the Henry VIII method of dealing with the CC. Seize their property until the batsards pay victims what they owe. Dragging their heels on this show the disrespect the have for their victims. Lets hope the pope gets reminded about this when he  shows his face in Ireland.
If they haven’t paid then the deal is void and they are not indemnified from litigation…. maybe some solicitors will put pressure on them via a few letters ?
@Damien Cahill: Agreed, if they failed to pay up in accordance with the payment terms, this would constitute a breach of this agreement and would be cause for termination of the original agreement allowing then to go after the full amount. I’m not in the legal profession btw but them is the rules for the rest of us.
You said it there Ciaran. ‘For the rest of us’. These lot don’t have the same rules as has been proved many times over.
The scale of it all, though. They not only knew but tried to silence people and took out clerical insurance. No wonder they wanted the amount capped, by our government in advance.
Usual State Institution Terms between each other ; ah sure it will be grand when u can so.
@Fiona Fitzgerald: boycott Sunday Mass attendance
The truly disgusting aspect of all of this is that some of the victims have had to contribute in adult life through their taxes for compensation that should have been 100% paid by the abusers. What a sick organisation.
And don’t forget some of those taxes are going to the very organisation that facilitated their abuse and then put them through the torture of reliving it all. Time to tax the church, fully.
Bit ironic how kenny is so publicly calling for other people to answer questions when he won’t answer any questions himself, just sheepishly hides away unitl it blows over, and he’s got lots of questions to answer.
@Adrian: That would be a very big F U statement to the Pontiff and church alright but I can’t see the state having the balls to do that unfortunately.
@Adrian: Sorry, that was meant for tweed cap above your comment.
Agreed and it is very telling that he is not instructing Noonan to answer the mounting questions around the Grace case.
Noonan should hang his head in shame, the man is a disgraceful human being.
@Paul Mc: he has the air of the crypt about him.Horrible character.
Harris wants to take action? A first time for everything….
@Brian O’Faolain:He just says he wants to take action.He hasn’t indicated that he has any actual intention of actually taking action.
Irony at its best. One corrupt organisation calling out another. The church must be made pay and assets should be seized. Their tax free status is an absolute disgrace. One of the if not the most powerful and richest companies in the world. Disgusting how they covered up and ignored these issues. They need to be made accountable now
Remove the tax free status NOW, get on with it. These organisations need to cough up, the church is rich enough. Anyone that goes to Sunday Mass should not contribute a cent to the collection, do that nationwide and see the bad*ards suddenly wake up!
If they don’t recover the costs, then the costs associated to Catholic abuse (or that of other churches) should be taxed at source by members of the organisation. If churches are indeed “the sum of their members”, then the should be no objection to a 2% flat tax on members in lieu of their Church paying it directly?
@Rob Ryan: The worst thing is what is still going on and being ignored. Opus Dei for example operate in Ireland. The recruit/groom people in their youth and turn them in to money collecting and recruiting slaves making Opus Dei ever richer. Recently I spoke with UL, as they have a senior member working their and they seemed uninterested. So our children go to schools and universities where these secretive groups operate freely even today.
A warrant for the arrest of the leaders of these orders needs to be issued.All the assets owned by these orders need to be seized by the CAB.Compulsory purchase orders must be used to purchase all church owned schools and hospitals. They ought to get a fair price – and considering the church’s record of doing good for the country I think a price of 1 euro per school and hospital is reasonable.
I assume they’ll have to pay the interest too? That could be in the 10s of millions. Good scam to reduce your total payment if you can get away with it.
Absolutely the church should pay it’s obligations in full.What gets me is why does Enda say this now? Why not 6 months ago, 3 years ago, why now? Nothing to do with has handlers telling his that there is a groundswell of public opinion against the church since the Tuam mass grave discovery? No? Just a coincidence?Enda should have done his job years ago and tackled this, not just jump on the latest bandwagon in the desperate hope that it might increase his popularity.Our leader is using dead children to gain political popularity.
The church take in millions of euro, They pay no taxes.They can well afford to pay the cost. It won’t save their souls, If there was a place called hell, they have booked their one way tickets. But they can at least begin to compensate the victim’s who’s lives they destroyed
the government certainly have a cheek looking for more money from the religious congregations. the religious congregation are fully aware what the gangster government are up to when the government set up the redress board and paid on average €60,000 to the survivor of intuitional abuse the government let this happen. The compensation that we got from the redress board was a damage limitation exercise to stop us from going to the international court of justice in the Hague, the government used the survivors of intuitional abuse as a leverage to get more money for survivors from the religious congregation at that that time. When the government got an agreement from the religious orders to contribute an extra €6M the survivors were under the imprecision that there there was €6M forthcoming for survivors that was not the case the survivors were hoodwinked and the government gave the survivors €110M and the government were to get €490M I should know this I am a survivor from birth. I did nothing wrong and I was deprived of my liberty from birth till I reached my 16th birthday should know what I am talking about I am a survivor
The Catholic churches real god is money and is worshipped above all else.
@Evan Wakefield: true.
Stop trying to deflect responsibility away from the state would be more up your street Enda.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: The state is paying up. Which means we are paying up. If the church thinks they can wait this out and we will forget about it they can think again.. Time to leave the childish superstitions behind and call them out for what they really are. Bloody cheek of them to think they have the moral high ground.
This is a 50:50 deal and the church are dragging their heels after agreeing.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: take a day off.
The Journal should do a poll on Emmet and Tom Burke, namely:Who is the biggest defender of the Catholic Church and their horrible Irish history;1. Emmet;2. Tom Burke;3. Emmet and Tom must be the same person.
Ah you left out Joe. Poor Joe
@Dave O Keeffe: And Scully. He seems to be very quiet through all of this.
Just came back from a swim in Woodstown. Like a summer’s day.Can’t believe you guys are still here.
@Paul Fahey:Maybe a poll on ‘Journal atheist of the year’1. Paul Fahey.2. Tony Daly.3.Paul and Tony must be the same person.
Emmet – typical religious type, you are unable to think for yourself.
@Paul Fahey:No actually I just hoisted you on the petard of your own logic there Paul.Feel the pain.
Cancel or suspend their Charity status and they won’t be long in paying up .
@PVD: Charity status should be reserved to Vulture Funds only – at least they do it for real values. And wipe out all that Christian nonsense from modern world – no more priests, no more churches, First Communions, weddings, Easters, Christmases or even saints !!
PaulBy biggest do you mean tallest?Paul is 6′ 4″ apparently :)
Tom – the invite remains open. There will be close to 4000 people at Cuala on Friday as we head in to the All Ireland Hurling Final, come down say hello. Just ask for me, people will know me as I don’t hide behind anonymity whilst firing hate and bike at people.
@Tom Burke:Don’t do it Tom, it’s a trap.
@Dave O Keeffe: this is an evil organisation that has destroyed innocent victims lives and has help Ireland back from its development since 1922. They have a tax free status to do this.Even the Mafia havent figured out that scam.all the apologies in the world mean nothing to these creeps. Time to remove their special tax free status and start closing some of these orders down, the only thing they understand  is this sort of method.
So we should expect to have Gardai knocking on Bishops doors at 6am in the morning and dragging them off to Prison for non-payment (just like TV licence &parking fine offenders)
@Nigel O’Neill: the Roman Catholic Church has Vatican immunity.
@Nigel O’Neill: yes and show it on RTE
Pressure bedamned. It’s way past time that the government institute legislation to sequester church land and properties to pay this debt to the Irish people. Get the bailiffs into some episcopal palaces and see how quick the bishop’s will break out the chequebooks.
How about our politicians giving up their property to accommodate the people they made homeless through their policy of selling houses to vulture funds. Not a hope in hello chance of it happening but if all was fair, should be done.
Bishop Martin should read his holy book more often, if he is morally conflicted about paying up its pretty clear what ‘God’ says:“Therefore whatever you desire for men to do to you, youshall also do to them; for this is the law and the prophet”
How anyone​ living in this country of even average intelligence, can still call themselves a Catholic, still support this evil organisation in 2017 is baffling. You are just as bad as they are. Shame on you
It’s a fear thing .
The roof is caving  in…. lets but a bit more weight on it !
@Paul ScanlanYou are correct but in the end it is fear of the unknown ! Those who linger will tell you they have faith, it is not faith, it is the concept of ” saving their souls from damnation”  Too risky for them at this stage to change. Faith was always the war cry when reason and intelligence was used !
If those attending Mass would agree to contribute zero at the Offertory collection, until the church meets its obligation, we may see some positive action.Talking will gain nothing
Catholic Church to the State and to the victims. Go whistle for your money.FG and FF will look after the Roman Catholic Church.
Ban the ones who haven’t paid, kick them out of the country and seize their assets.
Sorry about the mistake in connection with the compensation again I am not used to these big number it should say €600M forgive me
I look forward to the day religion dies but…I have my doubts it will
Full payment and extra would be a token of sincere contrition.The various Roman Catholic Church orders are far from contrite
I think the Irish free state, as set up in 1922, is equally culpable. Power was handed over to religious institutions, with no checks, no supervision, no accountability. The opportunity to abuse without redress was irresistible.
Forget the money, cancel the agreement as the church have clearly not lived up to their side. Then once cancelled and indemnity is gone go and arrest every single fukin one of them.
correction it should be €60M
rather than a pointless referendum Presidential voting, should be an immediate referendum to give State the power to seize any or all Religious and Church assets required to fully compensate the victims of Church abuse
A lot of heads in the sand. Of course it is unpopular to try and force the Catholic Church to pay over a lot of money and then their faithful are likely to vote for the opposition in the next election! Some things are too slow to change. Many things still go on that poeple are not aware of. Opus Dei recruit young people in Ireland, often through schools, universities and youth groups, turn them in to money collecting and recruiting slaves and no one seems to pay any notice. Their headquarters are in Manhattan in New York. They are very wealthy however their unfortunate victims choose a life of poverty so they can make as much money as possible. They have a senior member, for example, working in the University of Limerick and I asked the University about it but they are uninterested. I’m sure the parents would be very interested to know. This country needs people to grasp the nettle and deal with these things however unpopular it seems in the short-term.
What clowns thought to indemnify these paedos ? FF. Great work. Forget indemnification. No amount of money redresses what these twisted people have gotten up to. Why cap the pay-off? There appears to be no limit to what has been done… so no ceiling to those 10 pieces of silver…..Prosecute each and every last one of the offenders, even the crusty aul wans. Disgrace them all 1 by 1. Leave them rot in jail. Then we may get somewhere.That might make them stop, which is whats needed right??? As long as they are protected or indemnified, why would they ever change? Has a single one of them been prosecuted? Served time? Repented, even? Despicable people. Those that continue to go to church and pay the tithe are defacto contributing to the protection of these vermin, whether they like it or not.
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more….
@Elizabeth Taylor: Elizabeth…F*uck off
The church gets a lot of money from wills.  Auld ones thinking they will get to heaven.     Who would want to be there?
The Russians will have a field day and get one of the Healy Rea lads elected!!
John g mcgrath..thats the comment of the year! Russian influence in Kerry politics, brilliant.
We could have Bono….even worse than a Healy Rea..
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more…….
Online voting is for reality TV shows not democratic elections. We need a transparent auditable process. If you can’t be bothered applying for a postal vote then maybe you are not that interested. This entire idea is misguided. You shold vote where you pay tax.
Simeon I pay tax on property in Ireland though I live in Europe, I cant vote in Irish elections. Forget the smokescreen of presidential ones, we should be allowed to vote for what government we want.Never happen though, FG &FF would be slaughtered !
and anyone living here but owning a property in Spain, for example, pays tax there but doesn’t get a vote there.
@Gus Sheridan: absentee landlord tax should not allow you to vote PAYE contributions only , or  if thats not an option  join the rest of the parasites  and live in  the Kip
But Second and Third generation Spanish Emigrants can vote in the Spanish general elections, some seats are decided by these votes, they only have to be registered in the electoral census and have citizenship (Spain allows up to third generation) all the political party’s have active lobby’s for the emigrant vote. It’s a way of keeping the connection to the homeland and also that the emigrant groups can pressure the government a good example are the exiled spanish children who receive grants to fund support groups for victims of the dictatorship
As long as they limit the number of year’s the voter is out off the country. Otherwise we could have Bosco elected because he never ages.
Strange how he didn’t need to compile a citizens assembly.
Surely this treats citizens living in Ireland more unfairly than those who have left.  Discrimination due to domicile?
@Mick12:The big question that would come up at election time: Is Bosco a he or a she?
@ktsiwot: I beg to differ – I’d say it will be on whether you like Beyoncé or not.
@Matt Connolly:They are very badly stuck for a poll, there have been many ridiculous ones, but this really takes the piss.
Online voting for all of us would be fantastic and would really boost the number of people voting in this country. However, I am not in favour of giving residents abroad the chance to vote in Ireland (esp. political or constitutional elections). I lived in the US for 14 years but never felt I should have a say in voting in Ireland. (Moved home 8 years ago). I chose to move to another country and set up my life there and do not see why a passport or where I was born dictate the outcomes of an election in a country that I did not reside in. I was not the one that was going to be impacted by the decisions made. Focus on getting more involvement from those within our own country first before worrying about folks living abroad. (Having said that maybe allowing it for the Presidential Election maybe ok as the office does does not have political power and seems these days more focused about building bridges abroad).
@Aidan O’Leary:Aidan, this isn’t just about Irish people abroad. There are six counties in our own country that currently are forbidden from voting in Presidential elections. Ridiculous.
So they can’t vote, they are not part of the State currently.What is the problem?
@Tír Eoghain Gael: You can vote in British elections instead. Oh, I forgot the royal family don’t do elections, they have a hereditary free right of passage when it comes to being head of state.
@Aidan O’Leary: online voting would be majorly vulnerable to fraud, it’s a terrible idea.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: I think you’ll find that whether you like it or not, Northern Ireland is actually a separate country. I could be wrong, but I believe I even heard once that there may even have been a little trouble or a little dispute about that sometime, as some people tried to change that fact.
If you are traveling then it’s a great idea but I don’t think people who live permanently in another country should have any say to be honest
Well, it is relevant to them that it’s our President who meets and greets people from other countries, she or he will represent them as such, just as much. I’m in favour of it. In fairness, don’t they pay for an Irish passport? Surely they are entitled to some representation.
Online voting would be too open to manipulation and hacking, so no. It should not be introduced. And the entire referendum is a joke. All that money so people abroad can vote what is essentially a figurehead. There are far more important issues that need addressing in referendum before this should even be a consideration.
My brother both live in the US now for about 22 years. They do no know how things work in Ireland anymore. They don’t understand how variable rate mortgages work as they can just fix theirs anytime. There is loads of things they don’t know now including what the president does here. Time limited needed
@Kal Ipers: Ireland should definitely base it’s voting system on your brothers lack of interest in Ireland.
I’d be in favout of those abroad (who hold Irish passports) being allowed vote, as long as they contribute taxes to the country in the way US citizens do.EG, in L.A., on an income of $50,000 the effective tax rate is 11.09% with an additional FICA deduction of 7.65% & state deduction of 3.48% totalling 22.22% deductions.  This should be set against the comparative Irish tax rate & the balance paid to government.In short:  No representation without taxation.
@OU812: That sounds a bit mercenary. You were entitled to an Irish passport from the moment you were born. I don’t see why you should be made to pay taxes, including “temporary” taxes, as a toddler, not until you start earning some money. We don’t do child labour here. Sure FG lost out once when they tried to impose tax on children’s shoes!
While the move should be welcomed, lets be frank here. kenny is ignoring the clamour for referenda on the 8th and ownership of our water. This is a distraction and is being touted for all the wrong reasons.
There is a reason fg don’t want emigrants having full voting rights as they do in most European countries. They would be wiped out in elections by the people who emigrated because of their policies.
Define most European Countries?
It’s not just FG.I don’t want emigrants, who are likely to ticked off at having to emigrate, voting on who will govern those of us that remain here.This is the top 3 reasons I don’t want emigrants voting:1. They don’t have to live with the consequences2. They don’t have to live with the consequences3. They don’t have to live with the consequencesI’ve seen arguments before like “But they’re families do! What about their family back home?” – to which I say that their families have a voice already, they can vote themselves on who they want representing them just the same as I.
Paul. There are loads of definitions in Google..
@Rónán O’Suilleabháin: Eh because Irish residents have traditionally been great at considering long term consequences (cough, FG, FF, et al).
It’s been abandoned in France for this year’s presidential election. (The voting machines have also been banned in the country) . It’s too risky, too vulnerable.French expats can either vote by post or go to the consulate on the day of the election.
Another stupid idea floated by Enda
Kenny trying to leave behind a legacy other than the mayhem and misery he will be really be remembered for. Unfortunately for him he cannot rewrite history !
TBH its not him who cam up with the idea.  Parties like SF have.pushed this for years with
@Paul Mc:You have already rewritten it!When you clean up a mess, unfortunately, you get your hands dirty.
Calm down guys they have 8 years to play with it. the consultants and barristers and every other scammer will insure nobody will be voting without including the 500 quid cheque this will be another tax stream
Is this really that important? Does anybody know how many of these 1.87 million in the north and the 1.87 million abroad are really that bothered about who is Irish President? This seems to be a smoke screen to take people eyes off the important issues
Its going to be very difficult to differentiate Irish citizens living abroad who are rightly entitled to vote and foreign nationals who hold an Irish passport and therefore shouldn’t be entitled to vote.
@The Edge: Who apart from Irish citizens get Irish passports?
Bad idea. Vulnerable to hacking.
It’s for the presidency which is a retirement home for politicians. The president can’t do a whole lot so I say let the Irish abroad vote. What’s the worst we can get, Arlene maybe
@Fear Uisce:“What’s the worst we can get”Introducing President Gerry Adams
The presidency is a joke though. Over paid, underworked and now we are going to be paying a fortune to allow overseas voting? Maybe we should have a vote to get rid of the presidency.This is just expensive window dressing to distract from the major problems our country faces with massive rents, ballooning house prices and a health service in tatters.
@john: Free trips to Cuba to pay homage to a dictator.
@Chris Kirk: Don’t knock Cuba, at the rate things are going we could end up relying on them to send us doctors!
It’s a nice idea for Presidential elections. I favour it.
@Tony Daly: Do Cuban’s get to do online elections for their exiles living in America.
@Tony Daly: How can it be a nice idea when there are thousands of EU citizen resident tax payers and householders in Ireland who don’t get a vote in Irish referendums.
All for giving N.Ireland a voice as it only brings us closer. I do not support giving the vote to ex-pats as we will have to live with their decision, however if it was limited to those who only emigrated in last 2yrs, I would support that.
If the expats want a vote they should make a tax contribution, similar to American expats.
5 year limits that require 1 year of verifiable residency to reset is the only way this will work
congratulations enda for just handing the presidency to gerry Adams.
Why only presidential vote? Why not general election vote
So all the graduates who leave for better money eg. Nurses, can have as much of a say in Ireland’s politics! BS.
Considering that we don’t have universal suffrage for current resident citizens as it is in Ireland  – only some citizens have the right to vote in Seanad Eireann elections other only indirectly and many effectively not at all.Irish Citizens, resident in Ireland, paying their taxes, duties and charges in Ireland, suffering all that there is suffer form living in Ireland need 100% voting repesentation first.Then you can think about those people who do not live here, may or may not be citizens, probably pay no tax and make no contribution to society and what might be fair for them and the rest of the countries citizensPersonally I would extend voting rights to Irish resident non-citizens before I would extend them to non-resident [possibly/former] citizens.
Online voting. President Putin it is then.
I find it funny how this spineless toad manages to locate his nutz when outside of Ireland. Seem petrified to speak publicly in Ireland.
If it’s not verified by cryptography then forget about it. Totally hackable, especially when you have people running it that don’t have the slightest clue what I’m talking about: ie the clueless government backed by the clueless electorate.
In the USA, absentee ballots, downloaded from the net, are returned by post. Keep it simple, we still have crates of electronic voting machines in storage.
@John Flood: The electronic machines were sold for scrap a couple of years ago.  They cost millions to buy a further millions to store and the state got a couple of thousand for them when they were scrapped.  Someone made a lot of money out of them and it was not the citizens who benefited.
Will 2028 by the time this will be legal ! Kenny will be long gone by then lol
Surely you would have to scrap PR for a 2 round pres election like France and other Euro countries. Still its a stupid idea , or is it just to distract us … The radio this morning has fell for it big style , hours talking about this rubbish already.
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more….
If this is only for the presidential elections then don’t bother wasting our money. Those of us who were forced to leave to find work due to the choices of those better off and more advanced in years to us, should have a say in how the next government looks and in any referendum that will take place. They may want less taxes at any cost, but we may want an opportunity to come home to be with our families and friends. I think a limit of 7 years is fair for those living abroad.
Doesn’t go far enough, this would be a good way to force the hand of ultra-conservative majoritythat keep this catholic country comfortable in capitalism… *cough*cough*cough* sorry.
John.. Capitalism? Is that what you think we have? As a dedicated capitalist with progressive views I can tell you that EU is barely distinguishable from a communist entity. Ireland is following suit. Free market capitalism (what’s left of it) is what feeds, clothes and houses you. Don’t knock it too hard.
And also a senator in the US is pretty powerful. Whereas a senator in Ireland has about as much power as the chairman of a tidy towns committee.
@Eamonn: Jobs for the boys, I could not belive people voted to keep that act in the senate afloat. It’s worst than Fair City and more expensive!
@OnTheOutside: this guy is a failed Irish politician ,,his party Labour are a failed political party,, they were almost wiped out last election,,they doubled homelessness doubled child poverty, doubled working poverty,they wasted 2 billion euro on a failed water company,,Trump compared to this clown and his party would be a plus
This fool is not elected to show solidarity or anything else for that matters on behalf of the people of Ireland.
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more…….
“How did that gobsh!te get on the television?”
@Les well it’s not exactly the news on television, it’s MSNBC. Commie Nrws
Him and Maeve Higgins. Jesus Christ.
@George Roche: Wow, he’s there too? ;)
Typo in the article too. It says “comedian” Marve Higgins
@George Roche: Higgins goes off to the USA to seek fame and fortune and then, protests against Trump and his immigration policy?
Trump isn’t a fascist but he is a dangerous demagogue who has hoisted himself on top of the carcass of a crumbling society and ideology. Nobody describes the death throes of the capitalist system more eloquently than Chris Hedges:“The ruling corporate elites no longer seek to build. They seek to destroy. They are agents of death. They crave the unimpeded power to cannibalize the country and pollute and degrade the ecosystem to feed an insatiable lust for wealth, power and hedonism. Wars and military “virtues” are celebrated. Intelligence, empathy and the common good are banished. Culture is degraded to patriotic kitsch. Education is designed only to instill technical proficiency to serve the poisonous engine of corporate capitalism. Historical amnesia shuts us off from the past, the present and the future. Those branded as unproductive or redundant are discarded and left to struggle in poverty or locked away in cages. State repression is indiscriminant and brutal. And, presiding over the tawdry Grand Guignol is a deranged ringmaster tweeting absurdities from the White House.The graveyard of world empires—Sumerian, Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Mayan, Khmer, Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian—followed the same trajectory of moral and physical collapse. Those who rule at the end of empire are psychopaths, imbeciles, narcissists and deviants, the equivalents of the depraved Roman emperors Caligula, Nero, Tiberius and Commodus. The ecosystem that sustains the empire is degraded and exhausted. Economic growth, concentrated in the hands of corrupt elites, is dependent on a crippling debt peonage imposed on the population. The bloated ruling class of oligarchs, priests, courtiers, mandarins, eunuchs, professional warriors, financial speculators and corporate managers sucks the marrow out of society.”http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/the_dance_of_death_20170312
@Mr Snuffleupagus: Yes, and?
First time I’ve ever agreed with you Benjy
@Benjy Mooney: So you would like to see TPP reinstated?  is that right?
Pity he didn’t take a stand when the Irish were robbed by Europe to pay the bankers
@David Clarke: I don’t think anyone did David, you included.
He would be better off working on problems at home. Let the Americans sort out their own mess
Good comment but like the rest of the Labour Party they are now busy taking the moral high ground while standing idly by as billions wasted emigration soared and trollies in hospitals stretched around the block.Time to cut your own grass senator!!!
@Fear Uisce: He is like Erdogan trying to teach Europe how to make things. And Erdogan is at least president of 80 million country with 5th world’s biggest army.
@john g mcgrath: And his stupid wind farms.     Why does he get coverage?
Could you imaging a us political coming here and criticising our prime minister who does he think he is ?
Mrs M.Yes……Reminds me of when Pres Obama came to UK  trying his best to persuade us not to vote “Leave” in last years Referendum….saying we will be at the back of the queue ….the damn nerve of him !  He got his ‘comeuppance ‘ though. !!!!Wish these idiots would mind their own business.
AOR was in government here with FG and crucified Irish tax payers lost his seat and joined the senate for failure! Trump should ban him from USA
@Noel: Funny, I was thinking the same. Isn’t it so easy to have a set of balls when your not in power. But once your in power, not only do you lose your balls but you also loose your ability to talk openly.
The problem is the American’s will see Senator and they’ll think he’s somebody important. They won’t know that Senator is the Irish context is more than likely a reject…
@Stephen Duffy: And even if he was someone important, as if Donald Trump gives two shits what Ireland think or him, we over think ourselfs as a massive country. We are not. He along with America will/have/would chew us up and spit us out in around half a second.
The cringe factor is strong with this one.
I hope that Americans aren’t fooled by the ‘Senator’ title and realise that this man has absolutely no influence in Ireland.This just goes to show the level of ineptitude within the Seanad. This guy obviously has no idea that attempting to use an Irish holiday to incite protests against the President of the United States and his administration when Ireland relies on the US heavily is a terrible idea.
Given than many Americans think Nigel Farrage is the British prime minister, I wouldn’t hold out much hope of the knowing the difference
@Jimmyjoe Wallace:I fear you’re right, which is exactly why MSNBC interviewed him.They saw ‘Irish’, ‘Senator’ and ‘dislikes Trump’ and jumped on it as it fits their narrative perfectly. Meanwhile Ó Ríordáin’s need to virtue signal to the world is doing nothing but damaging Ireland’s reputation with a country that is critically important.Thanks Labour, as if you haven’t done enough damage already.
@Jason Culligan: I think it is around 22% of all Irish exports go to the USA. As a single country, it is the largest importer of our goods.
Do us a favour Aodhán and stop embarrassing us.
@Eoin Mulhern: I think he should petition our other Labour embarrassment Michael D——He might get a job as a flunkey around the Arus!
since when are the irish on the travel ban? if he means illegal migrants, then they should be deported, go the route most of us take, get the visa otherwise stay legit. if there weren’t so many illegal irish migrants in america these yikes wouldn’t be opening their mouths pretending to care for all migrants, vested.
A complete waster. Stay over there don’t come back.
Would we notice any difference?
Didn’t we vote this guy out of office?  I distinctly remember voting him out of office.
Oh yea the Labour fella who didn’t get enough votes to be elected but got put in the Senate as a consolation prize.
who cares what he thinks haha he couldn’t even get elected but he still looks for any bit of attention he can get
It just goes to show, even the established US media can publish fake news. Most Irish people will be mortified that an unelectable Labour senator is representing our political class in the US. If there are any Americans reading this, please know that most Irish don’t want to interfere in the running of your country and don’t need to incite hatred against a democratically elected president. This man is a useless waffler
Just go away
Why doesn’t he try to look after the Irish in Ireland and Northern ireland?Two faced Pr1ck.
Shaun King A.K.A. Talcum X
Says he does not use the word facist lightly, directly after calling Trump a facist, who has perfomed zero facist actions. There is plenty of criticisms for Trump, but all this hyperbolic nonsense pulls legitimate criticism away from him.
@James Guinan: This was the same O Riordan that wanted to introduce curbs on our own free speech. There’s only one fascist here and it’s this unelectable knob.
@James Guinan: Well, you know, the ethno-nationalist rhetoric, demonizing the free press, the assault on democratic institutions, the explicit xenophobia, that’s all pretty fascistic.
@Diddy D: Citations of ethno-nationalist rhetoric, because I think you may be confusing “nationalist” rhetoric with “ethno-nationalist” rhetoric. Demonizing the press is not exclusively an aspect of facism, many forms of governing has denograted the free press, presumming him to be a facist on this aspect is akin to saying he is a facist because he believes there should be role of government in the military, an aspect of state position generic across many ideas on the role f government. Amazingly though, the most interesting pointon this is, he has had an immature back and forth of name calling with the press, yet has doing nothing to compromise the free press status of the press, certainly not indicative of facism, more so unsubstantiated hyperbole of very ignorant people. Explicit xenophobia, citation needed please. Please do not return with the dishonest reply of him talking about “criminals” within a demographic. Also religions, do not constitute xenophobia if you feel the urge to mention the ban on people from certain muslim majority countries. No, that is not all pretty facist.
Why give this man air time the last poll show labour almost gone if election tomorrow they would loss four of their six seats
The corporatist globalist media likes globalist politicians.
An anti religious nut job hijacking a saint to highlight his own inadequacies and intolerances.
i love to know who s paying for this failed weasel of a politician to go to the states
@Kevin Moylan:w.I’d take a shot in the dark Kevin and say, we are paying, don’t we always, !!
After the recent revelations here , McCabe, grace, tuam babies, mother and baby homes . I don’t think any politician that was in government here at some stage should think they are something… They are not..  they are an embarrassment thinking they somehow are better than trump.. they should be staying away from media and hanging their heads in shame.
Aodhán Ó Ríordáin?The failed champagne socialist booted out the door by the Irish electorate.That Aodhán Ó Ríordáin?
The Irish state has always been and remains to this day, a conservative country in terms of both Legislation and also Government Policy. We might have legalized Gay marriage but that is an exception rather then the norm.Senator Ó Ríordáin comments are designed to gain attention, they should not be taken seriously
What a fool
This the clown who gave ethnicity to a special group and feck all to the rest of us. Who paid for that fool to go over to USA?
“AMERICA HAS JUST elected a fascist – and I don’t use the word fascist lightly.” But you do! yes you do use it lightly – that word and genocide are the most misused, overused words used inappropriately. Trump is not a particularly nice guy, but fascist? US Democracy is not Fascist nor will it tolerate one it is not perfect but it is not that nor will it ever be. Ó Ríordáin is a whinge-bag loser, an intellectual light weight just like most in the remaining little Labour party.
Tired of whiny liberals protesting about election results they don’t like.
Trump is not a fascist in the political sense.Trump is authoritarian, autocratic leaning and impatient with individual freedoms but he is not, at least yet, a fascist leader.
@Tony Daly: Not yet, watch him chip away at the laws and become one.
@Tony Daly:Authoritarian, autocratic leaning people who are impatient with individual freedoms are generally not pro-Second Amendment. It’s kind of hard to take away people’s freedoms when you actively encourage an armed citizenry.
His bull wasn’t selling here so now he’s exporting it to the yanks,and we’re paying for it.The labour ego marches on.
@Stephen murphy: I think that he on the way to becoming a fascist leader. Jason Culligan’s support is a useful “bell weather”  for these things. He is well tuned into these attitudes.
@Jason Culligan: your adoration of guns blinds you.An armed militia is now impotent, even, it wanted to oppose federal Government in the US.Surveillance technology, drones and more sophisticated intelligence gathering, such as intelligence algorithms on profile of gun owners, means that potential belligerents are easily identifiable and and can easily be neutralised if they become troublesome.
@Tony Daly:Talking around me doesn’t address my point Tony.Why would an authoritarian leader support making it easier for citizens to arm themselves? Surely if you want to take people’s personal freedoms away, you would want to disarm them to make it more difficult to resist?
@Jason Culligan: because there is zero threat of an armed insurrection. The gun fans are Trumps support base. You would never see Duterte banning guns.Gun, as a method of an armed uprising, is a charming and romantic anachronism.
If they allowed the citizenry to arm themselves with tanks, helicopter gun ships, fighter planes, drones etc then you might have a point.If you think the citizens could organise into a cohesive force you might have a point.2nd amendment rights are a sop to red necked idiots who think they can “defend” themselves with their weapons.
@Jason Culligan: Stop lciking Trump’s ardse, and see him for what he is
@Dave Harris: that’s the practical reality.
@Dave Harris: Most Americans have been trained in the military, be it reserve/national guard etcand are armed to teeth. The US also has laws prohibiting the deployment of Federal troops internally in the US. 2nd amendment is there to protect citizens against corrupt government not just self-defence.
@Tony Daly:“Gun, as a method of an armed uprising, is a charming and romantic anachronism.”You’re evidence for this is based on what exactly?The Taliban don’t have drones, jets, helicopters, tanks, armoured fighting vehicles or complex logistical supply lines yet they’ve managed to exact a significant toll using unconventional tactics and poor equipment.If you think the era of the armed insurgent is over, you’re sorely mistaken.
@Larissa Caroline Nikolaus: stop parroting pro multiculturalism MSM and give us an actual reality based argument as to why Trump is a dangerous, authoritarian with fascist tendencies etc etc. I won’t be holding my breath.
Larissa.. Over 50 days since the inauguration of Trump, no death camps for Gays or Muslims, no global holocaust, WW3 has not started, and he is not “Literally Hitler”.. Get a grip.
@Keiko: Yeah right, because Hitler implemented all these in his first days in office, your analogy is moot
@Keiko: 4,000 ground troops headed to Syria, massive military exercise in South Korea including a dry run on decapitating North Korea’s leadership. You seem quite ill informed as to the current military ramp up underway.
BS, it happens all the time, Military build ups and posturing were happening globally under the Obama, Clinton and Bush admins. Various other nations also have their own such as the Russians, Chinese, North Koreans, Japanese, India, Pakistan… What’s your point?
@Tony Daly: @john g mcgrath: And his stupid wind farms.     Why does he get coverage?The first thing a dictator, authoritarian leader has to do is to remove all forms of direct  resistance .  He must disarm the citizens.    The founding fathers acknowledged this.   No leader can be authoritarian if he permits guns in private hands.Government by consent has no fear of armed citizens and it is also a reserve army against invasion from outside.     The Irish patriots of 1798 knew that and the 1916  leaders knew it.  That is why Casement was executed
Irish Newspapers full of articles about Trump , People marching in Dublin about Trump , Enda asked about Trump. I am sick of hearing about Trump when there is so much we need to hear about cover ups and the state of Ireland .
Well all our politicians are either in America or on holidays right now so there’s no movement on domestic politics but I do get your point
Can’t have it both ways if the Irish over there are illegal immigrants throw them out people are going to have to decide open the borders to everyone in every country or not don’t care either way
When Aodhán shoots himself in the foot, I hope that as usual, it’s in his mouth at the time
Our Snowflake-in-Chief.
Feeling guilty over all the people the labour party forced out of Ireland.
The neck of these shytebags
How is this the lead story and a proposed referendum is second?
I’d like to apologize to the people of the United States of America for this crass and dispicable outburst by a failed Irish politician, against the democratically elected President of your country.
Third time lucky! AOR is a leech. He supported the fleecing of Ireland by the elites while his party oversaw the murder and pain innocents in hospitals and took away from the needy while swelling their own pockets
Didn’t he say “I’m not going to kick around the senate for the next five years ”  what a plonker.
HE WAS REJECTED BY THE VOTERS AT THE LAST GENEERAL ELECTION.  HE MOST CERTAINLY DOES NOT REPRESENT ME.
Will someone remind the good ‘senator’ to wait until the bandwagon had come to a complete stop before jumping on the bandwagon lest he do himself an injury & try to blame Trump… sick of this clown!
One is either for Trump or against Trump.
O’Riordain does not represent the Irish people, he is a SJW clown and Ireland could do with less clowns.
Stand tall with the law breakers… Good stuff. You absolute clown.
He is about as welcome as a fart in a wetsuit an absolute waste of oxygen.
What a hypocrite O’Riordan is. When he was a Minister he had a chance to assist undocumented migrant workers in Ireland and to end the dreadful system of Direct Provision in which asylum seekers are treated dreadfully. Another Labour hypocrite. Talk is cheap. His actions in government were disgraceful.
@Ron Burgundy: Yeah, his record on direct provision means that he has no credibility on this issue.
Well that initiative has truly set the cat amongst the pigeons.Sometimes, principle trumps expediency.
Another SJW loser that just has to stay relevant.
If anyone is able to stand by the end of St Patricks day then they were doing it wrong.
Count give a visa the next time.
here we go again another Muppet bites the dust do you not realise that President of the USA Mr Donald Trump was democratically elected by the people of America I don’t think you can make this claim you libtard dope
I don’t see why he can’t express his views that actually aren’t too different to those of quite a lot of people.I don’t think he has in this interview or anywhere else indicated that he is speaking on behalf of the Irish nation.
Any Sunday show on RTE has a higher rating than AM Joy.  Laughable to think it has any significance.
are we footing the bill so this gombeen can go on American MSM and spout bullshit. since when have we become the moral police, in fact how any of them can go abroad after the weeks of scandals in our little Emerald Isle or as i like to call it the synthetic carpet that runs from cork harbour to the port of  Belfast where everything gets swept under it.
i wonder does this clown think people who voted brexit are fascists, it seems that if you dont vote like this clown your immediately a fascist or a racist,  O’Riordan is the same person who wanted our borders open to take in more refugees, America please keep this idiot over there!
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more….
I hope Aodhain ORiordan’s trip is not being funded by the taxpayer, because he doesn’t represent me!!
“Paul Ryan’s grandfather arrived in US in 1851″ (166 years ago) Paul Ryan’s mother must have been very old having him. Leprechaun maths.
Paul Ryan’s grandfather arrived from Kilkenny in 1851. Seems unlikely. Maybe a great grandfather?
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more…….
“The executive order bans entry visas from six Muslim-majority countries”. They’re also war-torn countries and contain some seriously dangerous people who want to destroy the US. There’s no ban on many other Muslim-majority companies. Talk about biased journalism.
Oops, *countries, not companies. I’m far from being a Trump supporter but I’d like journalists to be as neutral as possible unless they state otherwise.
Exactly, what also isn’t mentioned is that individuals from said countries have gone on something of a crime spree here in Europe. Some 400,000 crimes recorded in Germany alone since the migrant crisis began that can be attributed to migrants who are primarily from the banned countries.
@Jason Culligan – source?
@Mark Thompson:https://www.gatestoneinstitute.org/7470/germany-migrants-crime
@Jason Culligan: Those individuals from those countries,were they vetted the same way that the Americans carry out their vetting? Also..let’s take Iran for an example :What improvements do you believe that  the conman can make in the space of a few months?
Gatestone? Really? An alt right think tank is your source? OK, anybody seen this yet?https://www.google.ie/amp/s/www.rawstory.com/2017/03/fired-us-attorney-bharara-was-pursuing-multiple-investigations-against-fox-news/amp/
Also Jason, your own source called the 400,000 a guess . from your source “Migrants committed 208,344 crimes in 2015″
Every Friday the Iranian Ayatollah yells “Death to America”, and then wants America to roll out the Welcome mat
You understand that he is not every person in Iran right?
Typical Kelly-Anne Culligan, post a lie and disappear
@Rosa Parks: But America already had the ‘welcome mat’ out to the many hundreds of thousands of students,doctors,,engineers & business people..Did you not know about this ?
The fact Pence is apparently a born again Christian is the most worrying thing I’ve read in some time. There’s a fair chance this guy will be president. Or maybe he just used it as an excuse.And why was Kenny “widely criticised” for a tweet saying he spoke with Pence and Pence was well aware of the domestic issues in Ireland? Sounds like more hysteria for the sake of it.
I’d agree there. I know a few of them. They actually believe noahs ark was real that Abraham lived to be hundreds of years old that his wife gave birth at 100. That the world is young. That dinosaurs roamed the earth with us in a flintstones way. Crazy stuff
You don’t know Pence was a religious fundamentalist?
*didn’t
Like a drunk uncle on the dancefloor…here comes Enda to embarrass us all.
“And for the second time in a decade, Ireland has sent a prime minister who has had to quit due to CORRUPTION ALLEGATIONS, but instead gets to go on this fabulous junket…” (Source: RTE, probably)
Entertain him ?Are they doing a Punch and Judy show for him, or a song and dance routine ?
Tweedle dum and Tweedle dummer.
Dumb and dumber, dummie.
It’s more like the Benny Hill show
A very conservative and right wing Taoiseach will enjoy the company of other very conservative right wing US politicians. They will have shared values.
We don’t have any conservative parties all our politicians are centre or hard left….Read the journal on an average day none of the conservative opinions on welfare or emigration or even on the EU would even be mentioned by an Irish politician….Irish media would be horrified at such opinions….
@John003: very revealing.
Entertain Enda with a bee in a jar!!!
@Richard Deegan: three stooges reunited
Ahh tooora loorra laddeee…a tooorrah looorah lee…
Pence is only one impeachment away from the presidency…..and has the same problem as Kenny in that he has to bite his lip regarding The Donald and Trumpian Politics. Do you think Donald might try to hold Kenny’s hand if they come across a flight of stairs, ala Theresa May? Or will the Donald just be pleased that he’s able to hold on to the biggest pussy in Irish pilitics?
The set is complete. A pr!ck and a pair of bollox.
Which one were you missing Stephen?
Nothing like liberal condescension on a Monday morning.
“I’m Irish. No, really. I am. It’s something Irish person has heard said in an American accent at one time or another.”Better said in an American accent than in a Richard Gere accent.
Or a tom cruise one
Have to say it’s wonderful to see so many Irish Catholics in the White House after 8 years of Islam.
Born again Christian, just as bad as a Islamic fundamentalist .
@lez ferguson:Born again Christians don’t burn captives in cages on live cameras because they believe in a slightly different form of Christianity. Islamic fundamentalists, on the other hand, have no issues with such barbarity.
Nah , you’re right but Christians bury babies in septic tanks.Stay classy :)
Mike Pence tried to fund the torture of US citizens
Pence is Catholic.
Well done Rosa. He’s a born again Christian which is a form of catholicism which is a branch of Christianity
Puke
I don’t think kenny will get much attention. The irish americans weren’t a huge factor in this administration winning the election. Bit of an annoyance to Trump i’d say meeting kenny, he’s got more important things to be doing, political, business and economics things that kenny simply wouldn’t have a clue about. Same with Ryan and Pence.
ah full blown tour, milking it for all its worth. make the most of it you despicable being. says it all about this lot. how many are gone over?
The picture of 2016 is of Barack Obama and the caption says Paul Ryan. For goodness sake!
I have never supported our leaders push for amnesty for the past 30 years. I think there’s a case for those with deep roots in the US especially those who are elderly or infirm. But Irish politicians will get nowhere until they recognise that most Irish Americans these days vote Republican like White voters generally. It’s not wise to have all our eggs in the one basket. We need to build ties with the Republicans too. Otherwise forget about getting stuff passed in Congress that we want. As Speaker , Ryan decides what gets voted on in the House, and McConnell in the Senate.
I’ve never understood why people make broad sweeping statements about people’s voting habits based on race and ancestry
Help him get lost over there, they can keep him
I am so ashamed that An Taoiseach believes it is ok to meet with Mike Pence who believes that gay people can be  ‘cured’ with ECT & Paul Ryan who is currently boasting about destroying access to healthcare to low income & poor people.
Hello, my name is Elizabeth, i was going through an article and found out about a man called Dr Bomoh. i have been suffering from breakup issues with different guys. i had to contact the spell caster. Steve was on the verge of leaving me for another woman. but i stayed positive and believe i could have him back and make him stay. lo and behold Dr Bomoh helped me. Steve and i are getting married soon. Dr Bomoh is such a nice man, he also helped me stop my cardiac arrest problem. Thanks to him and thanks to God for the gift given to him. If you have any problem whatsoever, contact him on this email:godbomohspirit@gmail.comContact him for the following and see the great work of Dr Bomoh:(1)If you want your ex back.{2}If you want to be very successful(3)If you are searching for a job(4)You want to be promoted in your office.(5)You want women/men to run after you.(6)If you want a child.(7)You want to be rich.(8)you want to get Marriage Spells(9)Remove Sickness from your body Spells(10)Business spell(11)Lottery winning numbers(12)Bring Back Lost Loveand many more….
What will the criteria be? Will all the third and forth generation Irish Americans who hold passports and have never lived here be allowed to vote? If so it will get scary.
It’s not for anything that requires representation… Anyone who’s forefathers lived in Ireland prior to the Irish free state will be included, but it’s pointless.
Anyone who is an Irish citizen.
@Patrick J. O’Rourke: I would say first generation Irish but not their children. If the child wants to vote when they are 18 years old then they can move to Ireland and register.
3rd and 4th generation Irish Americans? Apart from your condescending opinion of Irish (and American) people who don’t live at home, you show a complete lack of understanding what a citizen is. At most you are second generation to become an Irish citizen and your dad or mom must have been a registered citizen.
Not paying tax here should mean no voting rights here
I think if your longer then 10 years abroad no but under 10 yes the poll is not great journal.I said yes anyways.
@justanothertaxpayer: 21 African countries13 Nth & Sth American countries15 Asian countries6 Pacific countriesand 36 European countriesAllow their citizens living abroad to vote.What’s Ireland, and you, afraid of?
@Patrick J. O’Rourke: It won’t get scary, the President has the same power as a wet fart and it’d be a waste of money. 1st. generation emigrants, should have a vote on who gets elected to government, then you’d see change and our useless shower of politicians sobering up.
There are a lot of people who don’t pay taxes – unemployed, students, voting-age youths, elderly etc, who have votes.
@Dave Doyle: Many of the citizens of the countries you’ve mentioned doesn’t have such huge diaspora dating back to generations of Irish passport holders who have never set foot in Ireland. No other country have so many Passport holders who have never lived here. 34 million people in the US alone have Irish ancestry. No other country have the potential danger of having their fate being decided by people they have never set foot on their land.
Aww Dave… You went and checked!I just don’t like the idea of people having a day in my life when they don’t have to live with the consequences. They decided to leave and best of luck to them but they should not have the right to dictate to the rest of us how we should live.
As the usual communist suspects on here are fond of pointing out, everyone pays tax in some way by being here…Vat etc
@B Collins: Have you ever heard of VAT? Not to mention the fact that they are living in the country they have to live with the government who affect their employment prospects and pensions.
@Juan Venegas: That is a sad excuse. Irish citizens born and bred in Ireland, who live abroad should have the right to vote.
@justanothertaxpayer: You just might have to get used to it. 36 European countries allow their citizens to vote. There is no legitimate reason for Irish citizens living abroad not to be extended the same right.
3.3 million people are on the voter register in Ireland.  1.9 million people are in work. Do you want the other 1.4 million voters (pensioners, students, parents at home, people with disabilities etc) to be barred from voting? Voting is not based on paying taxes. It is based on citizenship.
Perhaps Dave – and to be completely honest with you it isn’t going to keep me awake worrying. But as it stands now in this silly poll, you are in the minority.I simply don’t like the idea of someone abroad having a say in my life. Isn’t that what all the revolutions around the world against imperialism about in some scale?I would similarly extend automatic voting rights in all elections to all residents (2 years maybe?) of Ireland regardless of citizenship.
Roland – might we scroll up? That point has been addressed by a couple of people already
@Dave Doyle: I would vote for that, Irish citizens who have lived for certain period of time, paid taxes and within a time, say 10-20 years from the time they left seems reasonable, and many people would find that reasonable. But the government didn’t say that, they say “Every Irish Citizen” , which means that some hard core Bible fanatic  2nd amendment lover Redneck would be able to decide our faith.
@justanothertaxpayer: I agree this is a stupid red herring issue. But the concept does interest me. I did a little more checking (surprise surprise) and it seems there were a couple of discussion documents and debates around the issue in the EU parliament a few years ago. But when i tried to open the links, i got a 404 on both links.Would much prefer to see the referendum on ownership of the water resource being announced, and that’s one i would love to be able to vote in!
@Juan Venegas: Fair answer!
@Dave Doyle:So eighty countries allow it.You wouldn’t be trying to hide the fact that a majority of countries do not allow it now would you???
@P.J. Nolan: 36 European countries do. That’s the important figure.
Linking it to paying tax is ridiculous yet is the go to response for the ignorant begrudgers. As has already been pointed out there are plenty of Irish people living in the country who don’t pay tax. There are also plenty of large companies and vulture funds who pay little or no tax. I’ve been living in Australia for 4 years but still pay Irish tax on my Irish assets. Does this mean I’ll be allowed in your little club?
No need to resort to name.calling there Guru. However the tax thing is more a measure of whether someone would be entitled to vote on something they would not have to live with the consequences of.So the short answer is no. You would not be invited to the club but I would fully support you having a say in how the country you do live in is run.If you want to have a say in how Ireland is run then by all means move here.
@justanothertaxpayer: We are not that forgotten. Every year the Irish Embassy in Sofia sends me an invitation to attend the reception and dinner for St.Patricks Day. I must raise the issue this year.
Are you saying the unemployed should have their votes rescinded?
@B Collins: Everyone who lives on this island pays taxes it’s unavoidable as everything is taxed, haven’t you noticed?
Here here Stephen. Ask all of our sons and daughters who were forced to emigrate to vote and you would soon see a different attitude from these fuc**rs
@justanothertaxpayer: No votes for the retired, the unemployed, students, carers, etc. then. But presumably votes for the many living abroad who do pay various taxes in Ireland
@Patrick J. O’Rourke: You need at least one Irish grandparent to get a passport, so third generation are the last to be eligible for citizenship
Actually I meet every year young American Irish who have passports because their parents of grandparents for passports because their grandparents got them. Where I live is the historical home for our name I am very aware of the situation. For many Irish Americans who have an Irish name the passport is a must-have. I am not condescending at all. I’m just saying that many of them have a couple completely distorted view of life here based on folklore. In the years when I was more active I logged over 100 families in one year visiting our village. They tend to have very diverse American backgrounds. However I had an email in the last few days asking why Irish people in Ireland are trashing the church and how disgraceful that was. If they had a vote, and this author of that mail has never ever been to Ireland but is a citizen, the person who is to represent Ireland abroad might just be someone we don’t want. As for the insults in your post, that is an indication of your own problems and not part of a debate.
Look at the state of the State now. If emigrants left for a better standard of living and some self-respect, they might well have better priorities and be shrewder than the politicians we don’t trust right now. Too many vested interests here in crucifying people with taxes for no good reasons.
@justanothertaxpayer:What about the welfarites and those in the Gaeltach ?
@Moorooka Mick: Like I said – everyone living here pays tax in some form or another.But having said that the more refined version of my point is all residents of 2 years or more should be allowed vote I think.
They don’t have to live with the consequences so NO.
What consequences? It’s only President of Ireland, position holds no power.
@Conrad Shields: Thats not true… He has the power to refuse to sign any law he interprets as unconstitutional and can refer bills to the supreme court. So I would say he has plenty of power
The additional cost of running the referendum
He can refuse to sign a law and refer it to the Supreme Court, but if they rule it’s constitutional, he has to sign it.
I don’t understand why Kenny is making promises when he already said he is standing down as taoisech after St. Patricks day
When did he say that, please?
Link, date or report – or another of your erroneous posts?
@Fank Pulman: try to keep up.
To be fair he never said he would stand down after paddy’s day, he said he would make an announcement about what he was going to do.
@Paddy: And he didn’t say which Paddys Day either. And took the teacher attitude to a noel rock and Farrell. When the FG TDs lie down like this within their own party ….
Too much CSI there Frank.Relax
So Kirk…you lied?
@Fank Pulman:http://www.irishtimes.com/opinion/editorial/fine-gael-leadership-enda-kenny-to-step-down-after-easter-1.2985600Keep up man, before you call someone a liar.
No.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Yes. To No
This has come up quite a bit before. Personally I’m in favour of a limited version. If you’ve been out of Ireland for more than 5 years it’s pretty unlikely you’d be back for good within the span of the next president.Having a say is one thing but heading off for life with a significant amount of time suggesting you’re not working to come back is another.
There’s a difference between an Irish emigrant and an Irish citizen (which the previous article was seemingly about). The latter’s family may have emigrated several generations ago but kept citizenship via the Foreign Births Registry. It doesn’t seem reasonable to extend voting rights to them.
Is this country belong to us irish anymore. Is their anything that’s our own.
@Finbarr Lucey: are emigrants not still irish? Have you mixed up immigrants with emigrants?!?!
@Tony. Yes he has, typical ignorance
Some confusion here clearly!Typical of what Jimmy?
@Rodan: I’m guessing he either means:Typical of the ignorantortypical that there would be a rush to the comments section without actually reading it properly.
@Tony don’t get me wrong it’s sad that so many people had to emigrate but I think the people who are still in the country and know what’s happening in the country should vote it’s fairer that way.
@Finbarr Lucey: Unconvincing backtrack.
Happy for Irish overseas to vote as long as they pay for it. The extra cost of producing ballots, sending them out, receiving them back, processing, counting, etc should be funded by the individual abroad and not the Irish Taxpayer
@Paul Scanlon:…and as long as they are “legal” in their new country of residency.
The pointless presidential election should be an ideal candidate for a paperless election. Every Irish citizen, home or abroad, will vote online or via an app using their pps or equivalent, validated by their gone country. We may as well make use of this useless suggestion to placate American citizens instead of important constitutional stuff.
Paul, nothing like the cost of us insisting that all EU documents be translated into Irish – only to be shredded, unread.
@ Paul – the right to vote shouldn’t come with costs to the voter. Alternatives include arrangements by Irish embassies and consulates as well as secure and relatively cheap online voting. Citizens living abroad already pay more for passport renewal or the issuance of passport cards.
@Gulliver There won’t be an online vote in Ireland anytime soon. It would be called ageist against the elderly who don’t use the internet. We are a few decades away from abandoning paper ballots
Plenty of senior citizens are online in Ireland – booking their own flights, getting awards for setting up websites, running forums, saving money – where did you get the idea that retired people have no time to get familiar with the web? A minority of voters might prefer the manual option, but I don’t think they’ll all be older people. I ‘d say we’ ll have an online census form at least within the next few years.
Even though the office of president is utterly surplus to requirements, it still should be the case that only people who have to live with the results of their vote should have it. This is a publicity wheeze, nothing more. Because we clearly have nothing better to spend ten or twenty million on.
Why not a referendum to abolish the Presidency?
@Ben Moylan: Do you understand how a republic works Ben?
Does anybody really care? Can we get back to the real issues please
@Soccer T’s: Emigrants often do.
It’s a token vote, nothing more
@Soccer T’s: With administration overheads to be paid for by the resident taxpayers
I’ll be voting No in this because Irish people who are now living abroad dont pay tax in this country.
Neither does the Church. Interesting implications there. So any order taking a vow of poverty should lose their vote, you say?
As patriotic as I am, I would personally vote no. Even if I think of the pursuit of Irish unity, giving nationalists a vote could make them feel more content within the UK.
Alot of Irish were forced to emigrate due to the mistakes made by past governments but not sure if giving them the right to vote for presidents will have a positive effect on future elections. It’s not like they’re going to see the effects of policy of a future Irish president? I know alot European countries have this right but why are we wasting money on a referendum just to make people feel included?
@Ryan McGrath: The Preisident doesn’t create policy and has no executive powers.
In favour of emigrants within a time period. Allowing the North definitely not.
@David McDermott: Northerners like Mary McAleese you mean?
@David McDermott: Lovely “all island” inclusive nature on show there. Our constitution extensions citizenship to all persons born on the island, therefore the President is of all people born on the island.And many emigrants do have a wish to return home at some point. (some time limit should apply in this case)
Fully include all 26 counties
Actually the constitution was amended by the good Friday agreement to remove the president as the “island” of Ireland.I know my opinion is not popular but I don’t agree with the north, which is a separate state, voting in this countries elections. It’s our president not the norths. Simple as really. The president has nothing to do with the north. Obviously if there was a united ireland then you get the vote but not now. I don’t vote in your elections don’t see why you should vote in ours.
@seamy Mary McAleese is a great woman and was an amazing president. It is a conundrum. Eligible for nomination but not to vote if residing in the North. I know unpopular but I agree with the status quo. I don’t agree with Northern Ireland voting in the republics elections. It has nothing to do with them. Just my opinion.
Nope. It would drag Ireland into the politics of other countries (look at the Al Halawa issue between Ireland and Egypt) and vice versa, with negative consequences for diplomatic and economic relations. We would end up with similar issues the Netherlands is having with Erdogan’s ministers flying into campaign. We would have ministers flying into each other’s countries to campaign – and it could poison relations between countries as between the Netherlands and Turkey. Because if we allow this, other countries will demand reciprocal arrangements.Also I believe in No Taxation without Representation and vice versa. Even an unemployed person residing in Ireland is paying VAT, which makes up an enormous percentage of Irish tax receipts. Someone living in the US who hasnt been in the country for years may not be familiar with the state of the health service, education, roads, the crime epidemic etc.Another issue is that it would drag Irish politics further to the Left than I am comfortable with. Irish emigrants and their Irish citizen children – many of whom have never set foot on this island – tend to live in coastal cities which have embraced regressive Identity Politics in the Democratic Party. I don’t want that kind of radicalism entering Irish politics (as an Independent Centrist voter).
Wouldn’t do any harm – we need help. After electing Charlie, Bertie, Cowen, Kenny etc….
Not one of them has been elected president
@Fank Pulman: Presidential election. Not general election. Also, we didnt vote for cowen. He was just used as cannon fodder to take the attention away from bertie.
No David – but our choices have been suspect in all elections. It seems likely, for instance, that a leader of the IRA will be in government soon…
AndyI bet if this was passed its what they would be looking for next.
Poor Frank is confused..
No IRA leader in Irish politics then…
Given how the media put a spin on issues it would difficult for ex pats to get the full picture before making an informed decision
@Shane Murphy: no more difficult then it is for residents
Haha. RTE portraying it as vote for people in NI. Nice try. If it was just extending the vote to people in NI I would be okay with it. But it isnt. Its about allowing all Irish citizens globally to vote. Dont be fooled. Im voting no.https://www.rte.ie/news/2017/0312/859078-st-patricks-day/
From what I could find out, 3 million people living outside Ireland have Irish passports and we know the number is growing due to brexit. That’s a lot of potential voters who potentially have very little connection with the country. The criteria have to be very clearly laid out
Well there’s one referendum I won’t be voting in. Who gives a damn. Give us a referendum for something useful, like Repeal the 8th, not this claptrap.
Every time you get to exercise your democratic rights it is important. However, its annoying its not a repeal ref
For President, maybe.For Parliament, absolutely not.
I’m an emigrant but no. If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it – and if you ask me, the last three presidents have been excellent. Even the ones before them, who were considerably more anchored in the political landscape, made a decent fist of it. But ever since Mary R we have had interesting candidates and interesting results. It looks like the voters living in Ireland want presidents who are well rooted in the country’s constitutional tradition and are also politically a little bit ahead of the curve. Who can stoke a few aspirations that are on people’s minds and lips without shoving their oar heavily into everyday politics.Where Ireland is stumbling badly is in finding a way beyond FF/FG poltics in government. We seem to have got to the stage where people are fed up enough with FF and FG that they are both about half of what they were in their “glory” days, but haven’t yet found or invented a coherent substitute. I’d be vere tempted to nudge things in a more progressive direction, but again, it isn’t up to the likes of me. And shouldn’t be. The people of Ireland, the ones actually living there, have to turn a corner, mentally and in terms of producing some consistent demand, as voters, for a constructive and sustainable new direction, not just protest.What I would like is the chance to vote where I live. What bothers me about Ireland not having overseas votes in general elections is not not having a voice specifically in an Irish election, but the “side effect” that I have no vote at national level anywhere in the EU, despite living in the EU. This means I am lost to the EU as a national-level voter with a European consciousness. I think Freedom of Mobility should be expanded to have a solution for this problem, such as all EU citizens getting the right to vote in their country of residence after 5 years, for example.
With an eye to whats happening in the Netherlands with the row over the pro Erdogan demos – do we really want such scenes and diplomatic disputes in this country?
There are 700,000 Irish passport holders abroad. Think about that. Do we really want to take the risk?
what a load of bull presidential election who cares they are all ex politicians or cronies of a political groups most live in ivory towers they wouldn’t  have  clue how the normal people think ,its they are mostly lefties, voting for a stable government would be more important driving this country forward.
Yes of course, why would anyone not think so. I can’t believe “NO” leads this poll!
I’m against all emigrant voting because they don’t have to live with the consequences of it. Which was the same for me when i wasn’t resident. But I’m particularly against such a pointless vote. Pass or fail nothing of substance will change at all. It should be a proper full-franchise proposition or none at all. Not this waste of money.
With most of our emigrants having left here as a result of massive political and public service f**k ups, it might present an opportunity for an independent to get extra votes and get into the best guarded gravy train known to mankind.Indeed an emigrant on the ballot paper might be a good way of sending these parasites a message.
What we need on the ballot is an option of “none of the above”. It would be great to send a message without spoiling your vote
@Gerry Ryan: Thing is though, the two Marys and Michael D have all been pretty independent characters and it looks like the voters living in Ireland have got the taste of electing interesting presidents all by themselves.The president is exactly one office for one person, so I fail to see where the gravy train is attached.
@Gerry Ryan: Any Irish citizen can stand for election. The candidate does not have to be resident in the country before the election. So in theory you could have an emigrant on the ballot any time.
We allow foreigners to vote here, so why not our own people?
Yes, but with the restriction that you must have lived on the island of Ireland at some point.
Yes, but not just the presidential election. The notion that a person who has worked and paid taxes for decades in Ireland who had to leave to find work due to collapse not of their own doing should have no say voting in the next government in Ireland is truly sickening.
Were they forced out with a gun? No they were not. They left of the own free will and should only be given a vote when they return and take up full tine residency in this country.
First generation only. .
Yes from me. No doubt whatsoever. As an Irishman living in the six counties, I can become Irish President but cannot vote for an Irish Presidential candidate. Just another absurdity of partition.
I know this has been discussed before but IMO it could he a bridge block for Ireland after Brexit? It will allow the Irish citizens in the North vote in an election in the South… Might be a tactical thing for securing special status for the north of Ireland in the event of a hard border or unity. You know, my opinion, I could be wrong.
@Ciara O’Halloran: Well then just allow NI to vote in Presidential elections. Not the whole globe.
Why am I never with the majority on these polls??
In the north yes but foreign no
Poll, are you in favor to extend Dáil voting rights to recent emigrants and EU citizens permanently resident here, as the Greens proposed?https://greenparty.ie/news/greens-welcome-plans-to-extend-presidential-voting-rights/
Sure let a bunch of dozy thick Yanks vote great. Look at what they voted for recently and the choice they had. Maybe a I.Q test for Irish voters might be a good thing.
Considering the current ‘elected’ midget it can’t get much worse.
For once you are conducting a sensible worthwhile poll
Yes, only if you were born and raised on the Island as I was!
I would favour the irish in northern ireland being given votes. Not anyone outside the country
Irish governments have used emigration as a pressure valve to deal with unemployment and poverty, If Irish emigrants had the right to vote we might end up electing better politicians who actually care about successive economic forced migration.Ireland is also one of the few countries that doesn’t let emigrants vote, for a country with a large diaspora we treat them pretty poorly
What BS this is!
We hand out citizenship like candy. Think of all the Americans who’ve never set foot here with their paddy wackery being eligible to vote in our elections. Hell no !!!!
I’d prefer a referendum on the 8th. You know the the one that actually effects the people of Ireland.
@Deborah Behan: why not both?
For me it’s a Yes. A lot of people had to leave to make some sort of life for themselves and many would come back if things were much improved. Although I would only extend it to people born in Ireland or those who have lived here for a extended period of time. There are people with Irish passports who have never stepped foot in the country, don’t think they should get a vote.Some here saying it’s a massive risk, they don’t have to live with it etc it’s the presidential vote! It’s more of a International representative/attend rugby games position more than anything else. What have the Irish people had to live with with Michael D as president, nothing too bad I would say.Ireland president powers? Yes the president can refuse to sign a law in and refer it to the Supreme Court, does that happen a lot? Not saying it’s never happened just can’t recall an occasion. It’s def a position for show rather than real power.
For me there many more important issues to consider for financial support. Votes for those abroad is not high on my list of things to do. It is a distraction from real issues. Poverty, child protection, homelessness. Why is there still no legal redress for building defects etc. The 1st time I can understand we cannot deal with the short cuts but we now know what happened. Is not time to ensure that anyone who does this in the future is legally liable along with anyone involved in the process. Ensuring jail for those involved. This government is in power for more than 5 years and yet no corrective legislation.
I think that this should only apply to people who are away on holidays, and not to people who are living abroad. Don’t see why they’d care so much if they’re not living in the country.
The MSM will support this because they know it will push politics to the Left. I will vote no.,
Couldn’t care less.
My Aussie neighbour who has lived in Australia for 25 years voted in the US presidential election. His 21 year old son who was born in Aus also voted.The anti-emigrant vote  attitudes expressed here are appalling and indicates that despite the outward appearance oflocals living in the 21st Century, the parochial views denying Irish citizens living overseas the Irish vote as disgraceful.If you want to politically disown us then why the #@$&?#@$% is an Taoiseach going to NY for the St Paddy’s Day parade. and all the #$@%$#@% crap about “shar its great to see yes home on a holiday” Does it ever occurto those living in Ireland that perhaps home may be where the vote is!I was embarrassed during the last election when our next door English neighbours dropped in to give us a lift to the polling station. He  could vote in the Irish election but I couldn’t and I have been an Irish citizen for 70 year for God’s sake!.The Government was not shy in asking the Irish overseas to “come back for the Gathering” because Ireland wantedour money but not our votes. Funny that?At present every Irish man woman and child living in Ireland owe 46,000 Euros and little or none of this debt was racked up by those of us who had to emigrate in the 60s & 70s.So those who say that emigrants should be deprived of the vote because we dont pay Irish tax just consider:-I pay Irish property tax, water tax (holiday home) car tax VAT while I spend $40K Euros a year in Ireland-I did not incur any of the 46K Euros Irish debt per person currently owed by the state.-I was not allowed to vote for successive governments from the early 90s that facilitated the property bubbleand left Ireland a debt laden basket case; so much so that the Troika deprived the country of its sovereignty.So could I put the question:Would Ireland be worse off today if it had allowed all its citizens to vote in the 90s 7 00s ?I don’t think so.But I guess everyone in my parish doesn’t think that they are parochial……eh?
@Moorooka Mick:http://www.nationaldebtclocks.org/debtclock/irelandThe emigrants did not rack up this debt.
If they qualify for to be on the register of electors,   simple and a stupid survey
I thought I was already allowed to vote on it
How about a referendum on the 8th amendment, or legalising medical cannabis? Pure distraction tactics by the government, avoiding the real issues. @Thejournal run a poll on what issues the people would like to vote on.
Presidential election?  The job matters so little that they gave it to Mickey D to retire in.Not saying he’s bad or anything, just saying, do I care who votes on who should be in the gilded retirement home?  No, of course not.
A quick prediction. Adams bowing out of party politics to run for President.
@The Risen: That was always his intention. And that’s why Martin McGuinness ran first – to soften up the ground for Adams.
To see him in the Aras would be truly sickening.
However – looking at our voting record, anything is possible. We insisted on electing Charlie, Bertie, Cowen, Kenny for years. WHO would trust us?
Only to certain folk on this isle. Abroad he is viewed asca statesman and figurehead associated with both an end to apartheid in the 6 counties and the key figure in bringing peace to our Isle at great personal risk.
Or you could say along with the DUP kept the conflict going till all opposition was gone….How was the Enniskilken no warning sectarian bomb part of ending apartheid for Catholics…It was every bit as sectarian as bloody Sunday. .
I’ve lived abroad for 9 years and worked in 11 countries – the interest in our small and insificant country is palpable, yet we think we’re influential…
And I’m sure with your positive attitude you’re doing us proud in all these countries
Glad M – you don’t disagree. Us! Has become a sad nation… Tuam is being viewed agastly – here in Bosnia!!
@Fank Pulman: I bet SF, wouldn’t have dealt with the Church any different and would’ve covered it up or looked after them in the same way as FG/FF/L. Don’t be fooled by their crocodile tears, they are just as bad and if not worse than the other three. Imagine Michael Woods, keeping AG out of the deal he did with Church. The deal is not legitimate, If the Government had no attorney involved and should be thrown out on those grounds.
“profound recognition of the importance of our people wherever they may be”…. Should have added” once they’re not homeless cos he don’t give a feck. what an effing joke
So what’s the problem
@John003: you do know that the British army admitted they detonated the bomb in Enniskillen, they claim it was accidentally, but if they detonated it they had to know it was there in the first place, it is well known that the nritsh security forces had many paid informers. The IRA planted the bomb to kill members of the British army if this had happened it would have been seen as a huge success and a morale boost locally, nationally and internationally. The death of civilians was a huge blow, if you don’t think that the British security forces would be willing to kill large numbers of British civilians to claim that sort of propaganda success, then you have no idea about how the British carried out the war in Ireland.
Just look at the first divorce referendum. Sinn Fein did not support it, told members to vote with their conscience. In fact Labour and Fine Gael were first two parties in state to go against the then might of Catholic Church.
Wait so calling a referendum is this easy???!!!!
@jorohare. OK the British did it…That is as believable as believing the soldiers on Bloddy Sunday were fired on and were returning fire…
Exactly John003. Joe better contact Gerry who apologised for the bombing in 1997. He might also contact the IRA who told Gordon Wilson that they were sorry but the bombing was justified. Incredible that some people will defend any atrocity.
@John003: well you need to speak to the British army who admitted detonating the bomb in a BBC documentary.
You mean the documentary which said the IRA had claimed high scanning frequencies may have detonated the bomb – which was later admitted as false by them too. The IRA scored a hideous own goal. We can only be thankful the bomb planted by the IRA at Tullyhommon, which was 4 times bigger than Enniskillen, failed to detonate. That would have killed dozens of children.
@Honeybadger197: while I would be the first to admit that the britshit army was scared shirtless of the IRA, I would doubt that they could force an officer to admit in a documentary by the British broadcasting corporation that they detonated a bomb killing civilians, who were celebrating the britshits army’s violence.
Joe, youve just contradicted yourself. You said earlier that the british admitted to it in a BBC documentary. I also like the way you imply the civilians deserved it because they were celebrating remembrance day. The IRA blew civilians up. Thankfully they failed in their other attempt that day. I sincerely hope your contradictory and obvious untruths are not representative of others who share your political persuasion.
Who give a &&@” ? Ask us if we will allow consecutive sentences for serious   Crimes ? Something that matters please
How about a referendum that next time the banks want a 100 billion bail out that the Irish tax payer must pay for the next few generation must pay have a vote in…… Who gives a cool who the president of Ireland is they hold no power but to do as the government says and sign new laws and Bail out legislation with out question like always….
The many Irish people abroad give a f&@k. We don’t get to vote in the countries we live in and – unlike almost every other democracy – we don’t get to vote at home either. We have no voice and no representation. A vote in the presidential election won’t change that, but it is a start.
@Roland Tormey: But you don’t pay tax here and so the financial consequences of any vote does’t hit your pocket.
We did have a referendum for the bailout. Seriously it was only 5 years ago. How do you not remember this?
@roland tormey – you chose to leave (and don’t roll out that tired line of “we had to because there was no opportunities”) – we stayed – we worked – we pay through the nose in taxes while constantly losing benefits and dealing with corruption – we EARNED our right to vote. When you decide to contribute to our economy then you can have a voice – until then – stay in your new home.
2012/06/irelands-referendum-fiscal-compact
@lavbeer: Neither does Dennis, and see what he gets.
Representation is not tied to paying taxes otherwise many pensioners, disabled, unemployed, students etc. would not have a vote while many non-citizen residents would have a vote. You get to vote because you are a citizen, not because you are a taxpayer.
@Roland Tormey: 21 African countries13 Nth and Sth American countries15 Asian countries6 Pacific CountriesAnd 36 European countriesAllow their citizens living abroad to vote.What is Ireland afraid of?
Here Here !
@DonaldsFriedChicken: This is not the first bailout of banks, I think it’s the third in 40 years and all under the watchful eye of FG/FF/L.
@Dave Doyle: Change, FG/FF/L want power at any cost and will not part with it. When you go abroad, you see how things are done differently and see what’s wrong with Ireland. If we don’t get rid of FG/FF/L/SF, we’ll never change and progress will be painfully slow.
So, Cormac Brendan, you would restrict the franchise to Tax-payers in Ireland. Interesting take on democracy.
@Donald 100% dude
Frankly Roland , you are living abroad so the direct impact of your decision is not felt by you , therefore your nice to have vote is far less important than some of the issues people living in the country are impacted by !!!!!
@lavbeer:  Our democratic rights as citizens are thankfully not based on how much tax we pay. There are citizens living in Ireland too who don’t pay tax but who are able to vote e.g. unemployed people or pensioners.Why shouldn’t the same rights be extended to those Irish citizens living abroad? Especially since many of them had to emigrate as a direct result of Irish govt. policy. If we use the ‘reserved/external constituencies’ model as in France and Italy, then the 1 million people born in Ireland, who now live abroad, will be able to vote without swamping the votes of those at home.
President Gerry Adams it is then if this passes.Personally, I don;t mind the vote being extended for presidential elections as they mean very little anyway and it’s all a bit gimmicky. If this passes it’ll be nothing but a total gimmick. . But, not any other elections. If you don’t live here, you’ve no business dictating who should rule.
So this delusional VICA group can get lost as they want a vote in ALL elections. No way.
@Mr Snuffleupagus: absolutely spot on
True extending it for Presidential elections is gimmicky and not overly important on the surface. However, if passed, I think it would set a precedent for similar extensions for General elections. Many will probably disagree but I think we should not allow citizens abroad to vote. If you’re planning on coming back, wait until the next election. If you’re gone for good, why should your vote influence policies that will not affect you but will affect those that remain here?
If you don’t live here you shouldn’t have a vote.
No representation without taxation
I’d like to see a 3rd option on the ballot to remove the presidency altogether.
Gone for a while but really don’t want to be gone for good.
I think this has weakened Irish citizens voting rights living abroad their right to vote where ever they are living especially in the USA the undocumented might not be overly happy as it plays into Donald Trumps hand of people having voting rights in two countries. I’m not sure I agree with the way its going to finish up
What about the children, elderly, and disabled who don’t pay tax. Are you suggestion they don’t get representation?
I disagree i think it should be extended to General Elections. What about the tens of thousands of young Irish like myself that were forced to emigrate to have a decent job and standard of living? Why should we be voiceless? It’s not so bad for me I live in London and I can fly back to vote, but i do feel bad for ppl in Auz, Canada etc that were forced out of the country by FF/FG and have absolutely no say in getting them out. No doubt FF/FG know this and would never allow and expat vote in general elections because they would be out on their arse for good and all and ever!
Totally agree with the no pay no vote. The hordes arriving back for the SSM was a joke.
@Eoghan O Braonain: They pay tax on everything they buy. They also live here. The no representation  without taxation was the clarion call of the US revolution, but if you’re going to take it to it’s absolute literal end and bring children (who can;t vote anyway) into it, it gets ludicrous.
@Adam O’hEidhin: You seriously think that in a country where it often comes to to a handful of votes, 10 or 20, as the deciding factor in who gets elected to represent me here in Ireland, that you off in some other part of the world should get to decide for me? What planet do you live on? That’s some amount of self entitlement you’ve got going on in that head of yours.
..
@Adam I work many international people and they can’t believe Irish people lose the vote when abroad. Every Irish national should have a vote, extending to referenda and general elections. Hardly surprising that the establishment would resist that right for the people that they forced abroad is it? And as for the crowd shouting no representation without taxation, what along unemployed, disabled and the retired?
@eoghan o braonain The children, elderly and disabled all pay tax by the fact that they live here.
After the week we’ve had, anyone who thinks things are going to be different in this country, without real change, needs to get their heads examined. If you’re worried about someone else having a say in what happens with your taxes, you really need to wake up. We need all Irish citizens to have a say in how this country is run.  There are three European countries with large emigrant citizenry, who deny them the vote. It’s Greece, Portugal and Ireland. All basket cases economically.
My god you sound like Trump! So I have lived 23 of my 25 years in Ireland, I hold an Irish passport and according to you I’m a foreigner that shouldn’t be allowed to vote. I can only assume your one of these FF/FG trolls on here with an opinion like that. Its unbelievable to the extent of which FF/FG have affected the young Irish of the last decade, emigration, national debt, mass suicide etc. The fact that expats don’t have a say in how the problem gets fixed is absolute disgrace in my opinion.
Shane has it
@Adam O’hEidhin: Fair point. But then don’t you think there should be some restriction?These could be either in terms of a requirement of having lived in Ireland – not simply the citizenship, or in terms of restricting voting rights to Irish in the North, or the UK, or the EU.
@adam O’heidhin You need to seriously grow up
@Mr Snuffleupagus: We have just seen Higgins pay tribute to one dictator in Cuba. No doubt if Adams were to become president he would be knocking on Putins door.
@Mick Tobin: Yes i do agree. Citizens born in the country or have lived in the country for 15 years or more should have a say in how the country is run. I think it’s fair to say citizens in this bracket will have come from Irish tax paying families, will have paid tax for a number of years in Ireland themselves and probably will pay more tax again in the future. But we couldn’t have angry expats like myself voting now could we? Or we might just get the ‘radical change’ they talk about so much!
@Shane McGettrick: I live in Bulgaria. Bulgarians living abroad have the right to vote in all elections or referendums that are called. They can’t believe that a “modern” EU country like Ireland wont allow their citizens the same rights.The whingers here are afraid that the cosy cartel of FF and FG would be upset by extending the vote to Irish citizens abroad.They seem to forget that the tax exile living abroad seems to have rights to everything though he pays no tax, rights to debt write offs, government contracts after the tender date expires, and a questionable influence on Irish politics.
Adam while there may be a nostalgic argument for a vote in a presidential election, a vote in all elections and referenda is ridiculous. If you don’t live here and don’t pay taxes here you have absolutely no right to elect politicians who progress their policy here. People may say they were ‘forced’ to emigrate etc but while personally I believe nobody forced anybody to leave, there were huge proportions who chose to leave. This is a very important distinction to understand. In either case you’re always more than welcome to vote in all elections. All you have to do is to come back and face the consequences (good or bad) that your vote will achieve.
@Adam, Is Trump going to be on the ballot too?
@Sean D: Sean why is it ridiculous? You don’t seem to make any points in your comment at all?I have been living for 23 years with the consequences of the people we have voted in. 500 people a year kill themselves in Ireland the quality of life is that bad, we have 40k of debt over every man woman and child. What makes you think that the people who just had enough and wanted to better themselves and their quality of life don’t deserve to  have a voice back home? You don’t think people were forced to leave? What about the 300,000 working in Construction many who would of had mortgages?
@Sean D: It works for other countries, why not Ireland?
Again, to all those who think we don’t need the votes of our citizens abroad and at home to have the best government we can have, there’s an old saying you need to ponder: “stupidity is doing the same things over and over, and then expecting different results.”  There is no second place for countries when it comes to good governance.
@Adam O’hEidhin: “You don’t seem to make any points in your comment at all?”But he does. He pretty much sums it up in one sentence. – “If you don’t live here and don’t pay taxes here you have absolutely no right to elect politicians who progress their policy here.”
@Guybrush Threepwood: Thats not a point! haha Thats a really one dimensional view of an expat. I like many others have paid taxes in Ireland for many years and will again in the future. So i really fail to see how your ‘point’ relates to 90% of the modern day Irish expat.  Here is a piece I read in the Irish times,‘A survey published this week of 100 members of the Irish Australian Chamber of Commerce found that almost 80 per cent definitely wanted to move back to Ireland or were undecided about staying in Australia. Three in four were at middle-management level or above.’http://www.irishtimes.com/life-and-style/abroad/returning-to-ireland/will-irish-emigrants-come-home-1.2230931There you are now, 80% of people out in Auz have visions of returning back to Ireland, have paid tax previously, will probably bring wealth in thousands back to the country and will continue to attract foreign investment with their international experiance. Can someone please explain to me how its a good idea to have good hard working Irish people like this with a view to coming home excluded from voting in Irish election? If someone can make a valid argument for this ill be quiet!
@Adam O’hEidhin: “So i really fail to see how your ‘point’ relates to 90% of the modern day Irish expat.”How do you fail to see? They’re not living in Ireland…which means they’re paying taxes to a foreign government…and the policies the Irish political parties propose will have absolutely no effect on them. In my opinion, it makes no sense for them to get a vote.If(not when) you return home, and you start contributing to the Irish economy and state, then you’ll have a vote again.
@Dave Doyle and I am Bulgarian and Irish citizen, which means I get to vote borh in Bulgarian and Irish elections. Which, I am sure, will cause some people here a fit of the vapours. And I can’t understand the problem Irish people have with emigrants voting. In my experience, living in another country gives you a base for comparison, and removes prejudices. Surely that is a good thing?
@Guybrush Threepwood: It will have an affect on them when they return home, which majority do. So your assuming that the majority will never return when the opposite is true. Anyway if you ignore facts ill never win this argument. Ill leave you with thisUnited KingdomAustraliaGermanyFranceCanadaItalyNew ZealandJust some of the long list of countries that allow their expats a vote in referendums and elections. So its no surprise then that we elect the same clowns into government each year. Another stone age law designed to keep stone age people in government. If expats were allowed to vote FF/FG wouldn’t exist within 5 years plane and simple.
@michael:  Our democratic rights as citizens are thankfully not based on how much tax we pay. There are citizens living in Ireland too who don’t pay tax but who are able to vote e.g. unemployed people or pensioners.Why shouldn’t the same rights be extended to those Irish citizens living abroad? Especially since many of them had to emigrate as a direct result of Irish govt. policy. If we use the ‘reserved/external constituencies’ model as in France and Italy, then the 1 million people born in Ireland, who now live abroad, will be able to vote without swamping the votes of those at home.
@Adam O’hEidhin: “Just some of the long list of countries that allow their expats a vote in referendums and elections”Probably the weakest argument you could’ve gone for. I’m not even sure what you’re trying to say. Surely it can’t be ‘because the UK have it so should we’. I’ll remind you that you did blame others for not having a point.
@Guybrush Threepwood: You think asking for the same rights as other EU citizens is a weak argument? Okay sorry I woke you. Pull the wool back over you eyes and go back to sleep.
“Great they are dealing with the really important issues. Well lads… keep it up” – said the elephant in the room.
It’s like they’re actively trying to p*** people off. Why not have 4 referendums on the same day, including one on Irish Water? The Swiss have 10-12 per year.
@Brinster: Will agree that the one on water is most important. But on ownership of the water resource, not the quango IW. Have them all on the same day.And extend the vote to Irish citizens living abroad.
Works for me, Dave.
As someone living abroad I don’t think this is a good Idea. Allows people to vote without having to worry about the consequences. That said the nordies should get a vote !
@John Kelly: Nordies don’t deserve a vote unless they sign up for an EU United Ireland…..
So there we all were looking for a referendum on the 8th amendment and then they get us with this…. which no one was talking about….so who cares.
Exactly. Do something that people actually care about and stop patting yourselves on the back for deflecting the real issues.
@Arn: “So there we all were looking for a referendum on the 8th amendment…” – speak for yourself.
Just making the point that that is all ppl are talking about the last year or so and instead of giving a referendum on that they do this. And you of course would be entitled to vote against it if you chose as this is a democracy or so we are led to believe….
@Arn: It’s all a vocal minority are talking about within a echo chamber. Most Irish people don’t give two hoots about repealing the 8th Amendment.
Will reject the proposal.
Waste of money for the Irish taxpayer, not like the president actually has any real power
@Colin Keogh:Exactly!Most Irish emigrants wouldn’t be interested in voting in an Irish presidential election anyway.
Not true. Let us decide for ourselves.
@kehe:The position of President of Ireland is an office that has very little power.  Therefore, Irish emigrants probably wouldn’t be interested in voting for candidates for that office.  Irish emigrants who are US citizens are probably more interested in voting in the US presidential election than voting in the Irish one.  After all, Ireland has no influence on the international stage.
@ Ciaran – indeed the president does not have any political power but as I mentioned in another comment I am in favour of full voting rights for citizens living abroad. I’ve seen some objections here about granting rights to citizens who have never lived in Ireland or who have dual citizenship and I agree that some restrictions may be appropriate. In my case I am a citizen of Ireland only and live in a country I can’t vote in.
@kehe: Nor contribute to financially
No Representation without Taxation!
@Brian Duffy:What would Wally do?
@Brian Duffy: Then extend that to no contracts without taxation. Apple pay little or no tax and have the government spending millions defending them paying no tax. Vulture funds pay little or no tax and take their considerable profits out of the country.
How much is this gonna cost?
@Malachy:About tree fiddy
I will be voting no! Basically giving voting rights to people who have never lived in this country. I don’t get to vote in UK elections don’t see why the North should get a vote in our elections.
@David McDermott: The proposal is not about giving the vote to anyone who wasn’t born in Ireland. Instead, the referendum is for the vote to be given to those citizens born in Ireland who have now emigrated. Many of these emigrants have had to leave as a direct result of Irish govt policy. These citizens should be able to exercise their democratic rights in case they want to return home. Also, even if they don’t, they will still probably have economic and personal ties to Ireland, which mean they are still affected by Irish govt policy. At the very least, they should be able to vote for who’s in govt.. If we use the ‘reserved/external constituencies’ model as in France and Italy, then the 1 million people born in Ireland, who now live abroad, will be able to vote without swamping the votes of those at home.
Hi Sarah. New article today on RTÉ says the proposal will increase the eligible electorate by an additional 3.5 million people which includes all those Americans who can’t pick Ireland out on a map. I am completely not in favour of this. I agree emigrants who lived raised here who emigrated should be allowed to vote subject to a time limit of maybe something like 10 years
How much will this publicity stunt cost? STOP WASTING OUR MONEY PLEASE
Eventually a referendum on what the entire nation is talking about – not! I’ve no issues with the ideas at all but I have a sneaking suspicion that the people might prefer to spend all that money on a slightly different election
@Anne Marie Devlin: It’ll probably be the B-side of the Irish Water one.
A referendum on appealing the 8th amendment is what the people want. I don’t think many truly care about the position of a state head with little authority on the country the position gives the post holder
@Liam O Rinn: Your appeal has been rejected Liam.
How would it work? Is it only certain areas or cities get to vote? Seems wrong if parties can influence directly on certain foreign communities..
@Lad: France and Italy use ‘external’ or ‘reserved’ constituencies so that citizens abroad elect their own representatives in parliament without swamping voters at home. The vast majority of democratic countries around the world allow their citizens living abroad to vote, and there is no reason why Ireland cannot find a way to make this work.
Ridiculous idea. Part of how democracy works is that we have to live with the choices we make.
Exactly and people who live thousands of miles away won’t have to live with the choice
@Paddy: Their families do. And a tax exile is allowed undue influence.
Fecking great how about you give the women of the country the vote on their body autonomy!
Stop with the left wing liberalism.
@Aimée Setter: You mean a vote to legalise the destruction of unborn life in the womb?
You leave the country but still want a say in how it’s run? No thanks. Surprisingly this seems to have large support from younger voters/recent emigrants. But what if a referendum on repealing the 8th was defeated because a majority of 60 and 70 year old men living abroad for decades voted against it? Not sure if people would be so happy then.
@Daragh Cassidy: it might be considered fairer to allow all Irish residents have a say in referendum, particularly if they pay tax or have lived here for a long time.
@Daragh Cassidy: That’s right Daragh, it’s mainly 60 and 70 year old men opposed to abortion. *sarcasm*
Shane I’m using an extreme example to make the valid point that giving people a say into matters that largely don’t involve them is ludicrous. If you don’t live in a country anymore you shouldn’t have a say into that country’s affairs. It’s simple.
@Daragh Cassidy: Many of these emigrants have had to leave as a direct result of Irish govt policy. These citizens should be able to exercise their democratic rights in case they want to return home. Also, even if they don’t, they will still probably have economic and personal ties to Ireland, which mean they are still affected by Irish govt policy. At the very least, they should be able to vote for who’s in govt.
any chance of a referendum to enshrine water in our constitution? that it can never be privatised?
SF should love this one.
Let them vote for government as well. If the politician’s feck things up and force people to move aboard they should be allowed to vote for a number of years and hold them accountable
@Alan mulvey: So you want someone who is annoyed with a political party to vote in a government and it is us who have to live with the consequences?! While they are off sunning themselves in Oz we are stuck with a majority government of AAA-PBP or Solidarity loopers running the country further into the ground. Pure genius that is.
@ Brian – you really think they could do worse. FF committed treason and FG continued to sell us out. No, I believe this is the moral thing to do.It might just finally force parties to look at long term employment and end the scourge of emigration.
I think if someone is forced to leave for a few years before coming back they should still have a say. I said for a number of years so if they don’t come back in short term they lose vote. I think that the government was happy with people leaving as it got the unemployment numbers down.
I agree. And I’m not sunning myself in Oz, I’m freezing my balls off in Canada. We would love to move our family home again, even tried it in 2012. We didn’t leave either time from Ireland because we wanted to. I would like a say, as my citizenship allows, of casting a vote for common sense so we can stop the literal raping of our people by the likes of Enda, Bertie, and likely Mr Martin as well so WE CAN COME HOME!
@Alan mulvey: So how long is a short term, 1,2 5 years? Is it counted from the time you leave or from the last election? If as Kevin posted above someone comes home for a short term does the clock reset? The whole thing would be unworkable.It would be like being part of a union at work voting on a wage agreement for instance. Those actually working in the company vote one way but are over ruled because workers that left (but might come back) voted the other way. So you and your fellow workers are left carrying the can while the workers who left are off somewhere else doing their own thing. It makes absolutely no sense.
Absolutely right Kevin. But the Irish electorate are suspect! Adams could well have real power soon…
I’m not too sure do you know what the word “literal” means….
@Kevin Quinlan: A 5% tax in your non-Irish income to the Irish state then fair enough. Your balls freezing off shouldn’t impact my tax liability.
@Brian Ward: The European Union and the OECD have both called on Ireland to make improvements to voting rights for Irish citizens living outside of the State.The vast majority of democratic countries around the world allow their citizens living abroad to vote, and there is no reason why Ireland cannot find a way to make this work.
I live abroad now, and the interest in Ireland has wained. Fine for a holiday – but corrupt politicians, crooked bankers, paedophile clergy, Tuam, drugs/immigration problems, and the constant influence of the RC church have made me realise that there are better places to live…
@Fank Pulman: still desperately craving the attention of the Irish though huh?
Where do you live Frank ..disneyland
Yet here you are commenting on an Irish news website.
Yes…none of these things ever happened. And we’re the best country in the worild, with great scenery and lovely friendly people…
With a bit of hyperbolic license: great timing among the news stories of Turks abroad about to vote to put their fellow Turks in a dictatorship.It’s valid though to wonder to what extent Irish abroad are influenced by the result of their vote. The presidency is mostly ceremonial, but a right to vote in all elections would raise this question. Perhaps restrict it to the North if the legislation were to be extended.
@Mick Tobin: Irish citizens living abroad can be subject to some legislation enacted while living abroad.
The Turks abroad are the ones most likely to vote against Erdogan’s plans, but good idea to compare the with Erdogan’s power grab
Good. But what about the other recommendations of the Constitutional convention?
Batten down the hatches, it’s the referendum we’ve all been waiting for but few expected! This could get ugly
I’d vote against this
No. No. No, if u don’t actually live here u should have no say in our affairs.
Wow
About time. If the U.S can do it then we can too.
@Seamus Og: The US has 350 million people with less than 10 million US citizens living outside the US. We are a nation of 4.5 million with 1 million Irish born living abroad. Now, do you see the problem of scale with the parallel you just drew?
The US does not have 360 million people…and 1 million Irish do not live abroad. Why post rubbish?
@Fank Pulman:http://www.globalirish.ie/issues/how-many-irish-people-live-abroad-an-ean-factsheet/US population 320 million.
The US doesn’t have 350 million people answer 1 million Irish do not live abroad. Check your facts.
350*
The US allows US citizens to vote in elections because they still pay US tax no matter where they live! #NoTaxNoVote
The US taxes it’s citizens living abroad… so they should have the right to vote.
@Seamus Og: They also pay U.S. taxes where ever they live.
@Fank Pulman: Cos they (unionists) are frightened.
Referendum to enshrine our water ..
The journal needs to start having some editorial standards. Whomever approved that picture to go with this important story wouldn’t get a job in the Sun. If you want to be click bait for the constantly disgruntled that’s fine, but it isn’t news.
Good luck funding a picture where he doesn’t look like a plank.
Voting against this for sure
Why not start by allowing everyone who is ‘resident’ in the country the right to vote!! 30 out of 32 years here and no say
Maybe the bit of the argument missing here is the fact that potentially thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands, of people hold Irish passports who have never lived in Ireland. I’m referring to Irish Americans. Has anyone got an accurate figure on this? God knows what kind of Catholic fundamentalist they could inflict on us. They would use their vote too. Ireland is unlike most other countries when it comes to this issue. I know a few people myself who have Irish passports and tell me they hope to visit Ireland one day as they’ve never been here before. Are we seriously going to give the vote to those that claimed citizenship with vague paperwork on their supposed grandparent? Dana will love this. Her God channel in the US could get her in the Aras despite who we want. It’s mad, unless I’m missing something here?
@Patrick J. O’Rourke: My thoughts exactly, we don’t know what problems we could be inflicting and an invite to terrorists in exile.
Most likely a sizable proportion were fleeing those fundamentalists you’re on about. But you’re dead right on one point: this should be a discussion about facts and real data
@Patrick J. O’Rourke: Campaigners are proposing to give votes only to citizens who were born in Ireland who now live abroad.France and Italy use reserved or external constituencies so that these cititzens can vote without swamping voters at home.
As an Irish person living abroad with family and some investments in the country (supporting Irish businesses) I would like to have full voting rights as citizens of many other democracies enjoy. I don’t agree that citizens living abroad have nothing to contribute or no right to vote. I don’t know if Ireland has a way of tracking remittances sent from family members abroad to help support people at home especially after the cutbacks in the last few years but it would be interesting to know how much money flows in this way. I am aware of many instances among the Irish I know abroad. To think we don’t care about the country because we live outside it is just not correct in many cases. Those who really don’t care won’t register anyway.
I’m not sure if citizens living outside of Ireland should have a vote on who becomes our next President, but I do think they should be able to vote on Constitutional referendums, because what’s in our Constitution affects them, too.
Not living in Ireland should mean no vote at all.
@Aaron Kavanagh: No it doesn’t. How does someone living in Australia be affected by changes to our constitution? I have family living abroad for nearly 50 years now and I doubt they could even tell or care what changes have been made to any legislation whatsoever.
@Brian Ward:”The times are a changing”
Charge them a tax for their vote otherwise they have no business voting for someone for whom they pay nothing. We already have NUI graduates living abroad and  who have never paid tax in this country allowed to vote for a senate that the majority of ordinary citizens have no vote
Do the Irish abroad get to vote in this referendum?
@Barry Swaine: What do you think?
Both above Scots not Irish.
About time. Hopefully it will pass. If you’re an Irish citizen you should be allowed a say in who your number 1 citizen, the president, will be. No matter where you live. Of course general elections is a different story as your vote is constituency based and affects directly the constituent as well as government policy. Only those living in the constuencies should be allowed to vote
Put a 20 euro admin fee to pay for it and see how interested people are
I’d have no problem with that. €20 every 7 years.
@Tim Clifford: 20 a year of course !
They’re looking for an answer (via referendum ) to a question no one is asking. Far more important that we get referendums on repealing the 8th, IW, sentencing etc. before this Phoenix Park nonsense
Please extend Dáil voting rights to recent emigrants and EU citizens permanently resident here, as the Greens suggested already.
“Referendum to be held to give Irish abroad vote in presidential electionsIf passed, it would mean those North of the border would be able to cast their vote for the first time.”Since when are Irish people ‘living abroad’ because they live in the 6 counties ?Don’t they get Irish passports as well if requested ?
No.Patriotism is not just some noble ideal.
So I’ve payed tax all my life in Ireland and now that I’m living in a foreign country for a few years I don’t get a vote ? Sad jealous people who never left their box
What a pointless referendum. The Irish presidency is little more than a token position, with no real political power.Just have a vote in the Dail and stop wasting taxpayer money on a stupid non-issue referendum.
To amend our constitution, we need a referendum. Not just a Dail debate. I think it’s fair, but add the other issues too.
Fantastic news – and absolutely right that every Irish citizen has a role to play in the election of our Head of State.
We should have a referendum instead on abolishing the Presidency.
He would be better off giving the referendum on Irish Water.
What about allowing people to vote for up to two years of being out of the country. This is the average length of a working holiday visa. Which would mean young people who have left to get some life experience still have a say in the country they plan to come home to.
What another waste of money. Who would vote against this ???
I only want to hear what date Edna is leaving office. Has someone promised him something and reneged I wonder? Seem like there’s no rush to push him out the door now
For presidency yes.. anything else . No !
What a load of nonsense, who cares? The only referendum that should be on the table is the one that allows women to have a say as to what they can and can’t do to their own body without having to flee to another jurisdiction. Wake up Ireland!
Just more waste of our taxes for yet another meaningless gesture which means nothing in real terms ! Good man Enda
Excellent news coming from Enda Kenny, for once.
Well it’s about time.
I was born in Ireland, raised in Ireland. I made the decision to move to the US. Not economic, just something different to do. I’m now a proud US Citizen but Irish to my core. I do not believe I have a right to any Vote/referendum in Ireland. I made my choice. Can’t have it both ways.
It looks, by the thumbs, that the majority of you are against this idea. I left Ireland in 1974 at age 28 for Australia. I had voted a few times before I left. I still am an Irish Citizen and would like to at least have a say in electing the ceremonial post of Uachtaran. As has been mentioned, online voting could be an option for expats. I’m not totally convinced that I could be informed enough to vote in General Elections, even getting news and opinions online,  but surely we could choose the President.
Next add in the General Election to those that have only gone 4-5 years. Any longer and they’re unlikely to return so shouldn’t have a say.
Ah no, your choice to leave, residents choice who is elected.
@Peter McGlynn: If you leave the country then you should have no say in who runs the country.  Be that 2 months gone or 50 years gone.
In the UK brexit referendum exiles up to ten years were allowed a vote if they registered with the county council of their old postal address.
A fake seat with no real powers, another big pay check the tax payer doesn’t need to be paying for, and a ref gonna cost more money for something that is not important in the slightest
Cue: Gerry Adams announces bid for Irish peesidency.
President of Ireland Gerry Adams.
This is what we’re having a referendum about!!! The 8th, sensible drug policy, public services etc etc surely much higher on the agenda #getwiththeprogramlads
The Government will do anything but not what they should. I see this as a waste of money and time.
Probably going to charge ppl to vote.
Who gives a flying f….  !
Let’s have a referendum first, to decide whether or not, we should have a referendum to decide on ex-pats having a vote in any election in this Country of ours. Most polls at the moment lean towards “NO” vote and I believe this isan opinion held by a majority, therefore let’s not waste time and money on a Referendum, a show of hands will do tomorrow night in the Dail Bar.
I think if you don’t live here you shouldn’t have a vote. I understand the sentiment of an Irish person living in London wanting to have their Irish vote, however, that same person would rightly feel they should be allowed to vote in uk elections.Should they have a vote in 2 countries?I don’t think so.
HOW TO GET THE BLANK ATM AND CREDIT CARDS ONLINE WITH THE HELP OF EXPERIENCED  HACKERS CALL  MOBILE NUMBER——+1(209)265-8144    EMAIL —legendaryhacker24hours@yahoo.comOne evening, i was reading a blog of how so many people got this blank card online when i was trying to search for a new job, but it didn’t seem clear to me so i ignored. Three days later, i was so surprised to see a comment by my cousin on how he got the blank card worth Millions of Dollars and without hesitation i gave him a call to come over to the house to tell me more about the card and he told me that its a miracle that i needed to per-take. He gave me the email address of the hackers and i contact them for the card and they responded and told me all the procedures and terms of the card which was also what my cousin told me, i agreed and completed their requirement to get the card. Four days later, i heard knock on my door an behold was the courier agent who brought the parcel to my house and today i am $17,Millionaire richer and i thank God to this hackers and to my cousin brother who led me to them. It might sounds odd but you can get yours viaEMAIL——-legendaryhacker24hours@yahoo.comMOBILE NUMBER——+1(209)265-8144
If you wish to vote for a member of a political party you’ve demonstrated your inability for critical thought. Please stay at home election time.
They can vote if they pay taxes.
HOW TO GET THE BLANK ATM AND CREDIT CARDS ONLINE WITH THE HELP OF EXPERIENCED  HACKERS CALL  MOBILE NUMBER——+1(209)265-8144    EMAILlegendaryhacker24hours@yahoo.comOne evening, i was reading a blog of how so many people got this blank card online when i was trying to search for a new job, but it didn’t seem clear to me so i ignored. Three days later, i was so surprised to see a comment by my cousin on how he got the blank card worth Millions of Dollars and without hesitation i gave him a call to come over to the house to tell me more about the card and he told me that its a miracle that i needed to per-take. He gave me the email address of the hackers and i contact them for the card and they responded and told me all the procedures and terms of the card which was also what my cousin told me, i agreed and completed their requirement to get the card. Four days later, i heard knock on my door an behold was the courier agent who brought the parcel to my house and today i am $17,Millionaire richer and i thank God to this hackers and to my cousin brother who led me to them. It might sounds odd but you can get yours viaEMAIL——-legendaryhacker24hours@yahoo.comMOBILE NUMBER——+1(209)265-8144
This is a great testimony i must share. I never believed in spells or magic not until i met prophetsolution. My life is back!!! After 2 years of Broken marriage, my wife left me with two kids. I felt like my life was about to end, i almost committed suicide, i was emotionally down for a very long time. Thanks to a spell caster called prophet solution who i met online. On one faithful day, I   was browsing through the internet, I came across a lot of testimonies about this particular spell caster. Some people testified that he brought their Ex lover back,some testified that he restored their womb, cured cancer, and other sickness, some testified that he can cast a spell to stop divorce and so on. I also come across one particular testimony, it was about a woman called Sonia,she testified about how he brought back her Ex lover in less than 2 days, and at the end of her testimony she dropped prophet solution personal email  . After reading all these testimonies, I  decided to give it a try. I contacted him via his email and explained my problem to him. In just 48hours, my wife came back to me. We solved our issues, and we are even happier than before, prophetsolutiontemple is really a gifted man and i will not stop publishing him because he is a wonderful man. If you have a problem and you are looking for a real Solution and Genuine Spell Caster to solve all your Problems for you,  Contact prophet solution via email:prophetsolutiontemple@gmail.com. He Will be the Answer to your Problems. With His powers He can turn your dreams into reality.Contact him Now:prophetsolutiontemple@gmail.com
How exactly will this work?will we give a postal vote to those living abroad? – making it easier to vote than those living here?We don’t have embassys everywhere, so voting at a local embassy only caters to some.Permission to travel home to vote discriminates against those who can’t afford to travel.Typical – farting out ideas before they’re actually thought through.
Couldn’t we all vote online on a secure site? If not, everyone on offshore islands already votes. They don’t have to travel to cast a vote. How hard is it to go to your local?
@Matt Connolly: The European Union and the OECD have both called on Ireland to make improvements to voting rights for Irish citizens living outside of the State.The vast majority of democratic countries around the world allow their citizens living abroad to vote, and there is no reason why Ireland cannot find a way to make this work.
If they don’t want to live here go find yourself your vote is dead to us
It’s the same story every St Patrick’s week. Undocumented Irish Bla Bla Bla. The original Undocumented Irish must be very old I’d not dead already. Anybody new to the USA without a proper Visa should be regularised or deported.
@Niallers:Agreed.Is a car driver with no driving licence, insurance and NCT an undocumented driver or an illegal driver?
And what if trump turns around and says “actually enda me ole pal no were booting them all out all the undocumented no questions asked”What will he do then I wonder?
@anthony McGovern,he would then say,”no problem Donald,I was only trying to make it look like I was doing something about,I couldn’t care less”
He will do what he normally does which is shag all!
Panic because it will be another 50,000 on the dole. How can we complain about illegal immigrants if we want the USA to accept ours no questions asked. Illegal is illegal
Why would Trump want to kick white Christian Irish people out? It’s a Muslim ban….or is it an illegal immigrant ban again this week?
@Paul, yep cuz there is loads he can do. Kick out all the undocumented USA citizens in Ireland . Start a trade or even declare war.The reason he will do shag all is because there is shag all he can do you muppet !
Thanks for the grass now fuxk off Enda
With a bit of luck, he’ll decide to invade because of the danger from Europe (oil find on the coast), invade, create the 51st state and call it Hawaii East
“Illegal is illegal” Yup!Are the 50,000 Undocumented Irish presently living in America illegals ? Nope.There is this pesky thing that is called ‘due process’..
I’m sure a lot are paying taxes.
@Francis Mc Carthy: It is shameful to refer to these people as undocumented,  the truth is they illegal migrants or do we should call people who drive around with motor insurance as undocumented drivers too?  Typical of politician to call something that is untruthful to make it sound better.   Aside,  why will Trump care what a jumped up idiots says!
@Jho Harris: They were documented & now are now are undocumented..Also.people whom are driving around without insurance are known as uninsured drivers,yes?They are not charged with being an illegal driver ..LOL ..Anyway,I don’t give a rats ass about either of them..
I’m sure a lot of them aren’t….
@Cathal P Forde:If they have been in the US for more than two years, they won’t be entitled to the dole or anything when they come back. Due to a change made before the eastrean europenan countries joined the EU.
So we will ignore that the direct provision service is operating in Ireland and start criticising the US immigration service. Fact is these Irish are all in another country illegally and should not be getting special treatment because they are white which seems to be the suggestion, that we should get special treatment over Mexicans, Guatemalans, Dominicans etc. These Irish people moved to the US for lifestyle reasons, they are not refugees, they have no reason to be given any special treatment from the Trump administration.
What has skin colour got to do with it?
It’s the same every year. The Taoiseach of the day comes under pressure from organisations to raise the issue. He does, everyone is happy, nothing happens. It’s a charade.
@Keiko. Don’t be so naive.
Colour has everything to do with it. Hes asking Trump to give favorable treatment to Irish expats which Trump will of course agree to because they’re not brown and therefore not under suspicion. Its a blatant non-issue to give the impression of a purpose to this pointless trip to brown nose the US. One pointless gombeen to another.
Black, brown, white, blue, green, if you’re an illegal immigrant then you should be deported, skin colour should not matter. Where does it say and who says that Irish illegals should get special treatment?
Most of those in direct provision are chancers and are not refugees , multiple appeals keep them there and as soon as they get our passport they are off home to visit relations and looking forward to a subsidized life here in Ireland , a recent Government report revealed that 40% of Africans are unemployed , now that’s a surprise
@reg does anybody believe that the Taoiseach raises the issue directly with the President either before or after the Shamrock ceremony.This is spin and PR designed to fool Irish people into thinking we have a Leader who does things.The issue might be raised by officials or diplomats but I don’t believe that either Enda or Trump would raise this issue with each other.
you don’t believe – but don’t know…
The question is, can you believe. The record speaks for itself.
Actually they’re illegal immigrants. Enda kenny would do well to represent the people he’s paid to represent not a bunch of illegals
If Trump can deport illegal immigrants who are convicted of breaking the law ….Then he would be open to give legal status to Irish undocumented….An invitation to visit Ireland when he is in Britain this summer would help this process alone…..Many in Trumps cabinet are Irish Americans more even than President Kennedy had….
If they are irish, whether illegal or not then Edna would be representing those he is paid to represent …..and for edna and all irish taxpayers they are a priority because if the donald boots them out they will be back in ireland signing on the dole, messing up fgs unemployment figures and costing the rest of us money
Undocumented me eye, illegal i think is the proper term.
What about the undocumented living in Ireland?
There’s undocumented Irish living in Ireland?
Reg that was terrible even by your standards
Alan, not sure trump cares about the undocumented in Ireland .
What about the documented undocumented? This is just about playing with words. Enda and the sham rocks!!!! New fake rock banned!!!!!
What of all the Irish people who have been legally applying for US visas, only to be rejected. That stayed in Ireland because the other option was to break the law. What about them? Why should these people that are breaking the law, get priority? They should be treated like any other illegal immigrant!
What about the undocumented English, Spanish and Latvians?
Not our of his problem.
!?
Kenny’s told so many tall tales and lies at this stage..would anyone believe him if he speaks of robust discussions?
This is a great country, we give our pensioners €5 euro a week of arise and they should be great full, and then come paddys day let the money roll and send our ministers and partners all over the world, stay in 5star hotels and eat in  the finest restaurants tax payers money can buy
Just keep your hole closed Kenny and all will be ok.
Fit him better to launch a full criminal investigation into what went on in the mother and baby homes
He shouldn’t be liking for preferential treatment for Irish. He should be looking for same respect for all immigrants.
Is this the same Enda that bad mouthed president Trump during his presidential bid…Didn’t have the common sense to keep his views to himself knowing this day would come .
I wonder would Trump like to put Kenny on his staff as a lap dog.    The Obama’s had a dog but Trump can have the irish lap dog
Not like there talk together will be recorded so id be giving 1,000,000/1 odds that enda the lap dog will even mention it really ,,he will sit there and be told what is happening and he’ll be like yes sir no sir 3 bags full sir .
Add that to the list of things you’ve done nothing about.. absolute lame duck snivelling cabin boy
@Lord Lucan: Hero comment.
Yawn more fake news from Enda’s press secectary.Meeting already arranged by Trumps people and the released statement already prepared.Political clown Kenny playing the Irish fools brilliantly pretending he will raise the issue.I love the hot air Brigade getting worked up on here.Down vote all you like suckers!
They are illegals. Kenny is such a tool. Trump is a tool aswell but he has every right to boot every one of them out. Same rubbish every year. Diddly eye diddle from our idiot politicians thinking we are important in the states. We aren’t.
He’d want to the muppet seen as its him and his poxy gov that sealed the deal in forcing people to go that route
“Undocumented Irish” is just another word for illegal immigrants. Only because they’re Irish it’s suddenly okay?
News at Six: Lame duck, fantasist storyteller wastes more taxpayer money to visit and gift, most quick hated president in US history, one dedicated to also throwing out Irish.
illegal immigrant and undocumented Irish are the same thing call them what they are !
The undocumented Irish should just come home. Ireland has community, true friendships, a sense of belonging to offer versus a soulless and fragmented society where people are constantly on the move, no community. Americans are introspective, f’d up and never happy.
Permo Dermo, bit of a sweeping statement there to say the least. America is huge, all Americans don’t think the same, the majority of them didn’t actually vote for Trump, many oppose the things that are wrong with America, just as we do here. And every community in Ireland isn’t great, plenty of judgemental curtains twitchers and more who couldn’t give a damn about their neighbours if it cost them anything. I think a quick scan of some of the comments here on this article referring to the thousands of young people who left to find employment and make their way in the world by their own efforts because those opportunities didn’t exist here should tell you what some of our smug, self righteous, ignorant and arrogant citizens’ sense of community looks like.
Noirin, spot on. Well said.
Illegal is illegal, and whether they are are Irish, or hard working is irrelevant. If they are illegal they are not paying tax, they should not be here. Does Enda Kenny truly think Trump will kick out illegal Mexicans, or Iranians but let the Irish stay cause he has a gra for them.
@Melanie McCrum: Undocumented persons in the USA are paying in and around $12 billion in taxes every year..In fact,they even pay more in taxes than the conman Mr Trump does..
@ Francis Mccarthy Illegal Irish are unable to pay tax as they have no social security numbers, they have no documents, they are illegal, they have no right to be here. The very same as everyone illegal nationality living here illegally. I live and work here, I treat illegal Irish patients here in my capacity as a physician, they have no health insurance, also now a requirement. If they paid taxes, they would not be undocumented.
@Melanie McCrum: The IRS has a way for undocumented to pay taxes.Some use fake social security numbers,so they will not be able to claim benefits even though they have contributed..https://news.vice.com/article/unauthorized-immigrants-paid-100-billion-into-social-security-over-last-decadeHope this helps.
@Melanie McCrum: ” I live and work here,I treat illegal Irish patients here in my capacity as a physician,they have no health insurance,also now a requirement”Melanie : Please brush up on your facts,as it is NOT a requirement for the undocumented Irish to have health insurance..
@west cork lad, it is a requirement for everyone here to have health insurance.
@francis Mccarthy, paying taxes with a fake social security number is illegal.
@Melanie McCrum: “it is a requirement for everyone here to have health insurance.” Credible Source ?
@west cork lad. Do you live in the US? The affordable health act made it a requirement for everyone to have health insurance, or else pay a penalty every year when they pay their taxes. Everyone has to be covered by some sort of insurance, credible source? The affordable care Act 2010.
Melanie says : “If they are illegal they are not paying tax”My reply : “Undocumented persons in the USA are paying in and around $12 billion in taxes every year..In fact,they even pay more in taxes than the conman Mr Trump does..”Now she has come back with this beaut :) : “paying taxes with a fake social security number is illegal.”So what ? They PAY taxes \O/
@Melanie McCrum: The lad has indeed spent a CONSIDERABLE amount of their life living,studying and working in the States.There are a few exemptions :-Undocumented-Those who belong to a religion that is opposed to acceptance of benefits from a health insurance policy.- People who are in prison-Those who are members of an Indian Tribe-Those whose family income is below the threshold requiring the filing of a federal tax return ($9,500 for an individual or $19,000 for married filing jointly in 2011).Pesky facts..
@francis Mccarthy, they may well pay taxes unlawfully, and that is not all of them, they are doing it with fake documents, and none of this is the point, what right have they are anyone else to here illegally? I came here legally, worked my ass off to start here legally, the illegal Irish here are no different to the illegal Mexicans or anyone else. Tax paying or not.
@west cork lad, who do think pays the undocumented when they need healthcare?
@Melanie McCrum: You are now whining away like a big baby,ever since I told you that they do pay taxes..they pay taxes every time they buy gas, clothes or new appliances. How about when they pay property taxes,which in turn helps with school funding,when they buy or rent a house, or rent an apartment. A report showed that they paid $13 billion in payroll taxes alone for benefits they will never receive.Undocumented Irish arrived into the US legally & when their visas expired-the likes of the Trumps hired them & of course he also hired the undocumented Polish..Anyway,they are committing no crime.
@francis Mccarthy. There is no need to get offensive, I am not whining, nor am I a baby, I an am American citizen with an issue regarding illegal immigrants. And not all illegals pay taxes.
@Melanie McCrum: You said that they weren’t paying taxes and I said that they were.Then you went on and said that everybody had to have health insurance,but as West Cork Lad proved to you above, there was exemptions.And after you realised that they do pay taxes & were exempt from health insurance,you started going on about that not all of them pay taxes & that who pays for their healthcare..That is extremely tiring to be dealing with.And that is the reason why I got narky with you..PS. Trump will soon find out that deporting these people is going to be an awful lot harder than what he thought it would be..And, if you are so worried about where your taxes are going,then maybe you might protest that less of your taxes will be going to FEMA,the COASTGAURD & AIRPORT security-just so that Trump can build a stupid “wall”. So much for helping American citizens from disasters like tornadoes,floods etc.. & stopping ‘terrorists’ from coming in via the coast & by air…Be afraid,be very afraid..Yikes!
Illegal aliens…
Watch, when Theresa announces article 50 there will be no Spanners in the toolbox, they’ll be here/there taking shite and not bothering about what really matters.
What matters if when the European leaders meet after article 50 is triggered….They will meet on 6th April….Irish ministers don’t really have a say in this….
@John003: Well, If I was a minister John I’d have something to say, rather than sit down the back of the class and nodding my head. I think we must say what we think should be done because really we haven’t thought of the effect this is going to have on “this” country. To be honest I can see the troubles flaring up again if a hard boarder comes into effect.
Good man Enda , trying to make this trip seem relevant, have you been following Trumps Glorious few months in Power, illegal immigrants etc? This buffoon cares less about the Irish undocumented and more about closing American manufacturing plants in Ireland. Cop on, give the F@$ER his shamrock (he will probably think it’s weed), come home and F@$K right off.
Aw fxxk this guy
Im sorry, i think Kenny is an absolute clown but what heinous crimes did kenny and his family commit ( you include mass rape and murder)? By all means tear strips off him, but comments of this nature regarding Sinn Fein have been deleted on a different article.
The comment has now been deleted.
More chance of Enda asking trump if he can caddy for him next time the Donald swings by doonbeg.
No National children’s hospital,Waiting lists miles long,Underfunded services left,right and centre,the church literally getting away with murder with state collusion and this clown with less than 25% of public support and his cronies going away on jolly-ups to a foreign country crying for people that have left this country.is he having a another laugh at our expense?Try and get this disaster of a country into better shape and try and leave something decent in your legacy before fighting for the Irish abroad.
@Enda Kenny ffs Enda keep your mouth shut Trump probably knows nothing about it.
Why care about the undocumented Irish in the USA  when you dont give a damn about the Irish Ireland  left behind. Enda  only concern is  the 3rd world  migrants and austerity to please his master Merkel.
Stay over there Inda ya knob.
#wank#r
HOW TO GET THE BLANK ATM AND CREDIT CARDS ONLINE WITH THE HELP OF EXPERIENCED  HACKERS CALL  MOBILE NUMBER——+1(209)265-8144    EMAIL —legendaryhacker24hours@yahoo.comOne evening, i was reading a blog of how so many people got this blank card online when i was trying to search for a new job, but it didn’t seem clear to me so i ignored. Three days later, i was so surprised to see a comment by my cousin on how he got the blank card worth Millions of Dollars and without hesitation i gave him a call to come over to the house to tell me more about the card and he told me that its a miracle that i needed to per-take. He gave me the email address of the hackers and i contact them for the card and they responded and told me all the procedures and terms of the card which was also what my cousin told me, i agreed and completed their requirement to get the card. Four days later, i heard knock on my door an behold was the courier agent who brought the parcel to my house and today i am $17,Millionaire richer and i thank God to this hackers and to my cousin brother who led me to them. It might sounds odd but you can get yours viaEMAIL——-legendaryhacker24hours@yahoo.comMOBILE NUMBER——+1(209)265-8144
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=UpGvMyaLQtA
Some our our politicians first elected in the 70′s so your actually asking them to fall on the sword.And we know that won’t happen when the first rule of government is self preservation.
@Stephen Maher: The Church has put some pressure on Kenny to get them off the hook. That’s the only explanation for such revisionism.
The nursing order should have refused to staff the maternity facility for the County Council unless they provided enough resources including enough land for a decent grave yard. Asking people to do the impossible and then attacking them for being overwhelmed by the task. The Victorian values and responsibilities of the families that tossed these girls needs to be examined
@Tom Molloy: there was adequate resources and funding. The babies that were sold at a huge profit were well cared for. Those unsold were treated like unwanted puppies in  a puppy farm. How many nuns died of disease and starvation?Why did the Church oppose State involvement in the Mother and Child Scheme.Your “history” is wrong and deceptive, intentionally so.
@Tom Molloy:  I agree. The culture in England was exactly the same at the time but mother and babies homes were not run by one religion  but several.  There were also many run by charity organisations.Why was this so in liberal UK ? Society was set up in such a way that a woman depended on a man for protection etc  with no support from the state so it was not encouraged in any way.  So it was based on economics rather than moral outrage.  Thank goodness times have changed.
There was no widows pension in the 50s early 60s,Children were sent these Industrial schools because ithe state dud not support widows . Skipping school send the child to the industrial school.Petty crime off to the Industrial school.These places were then paid by the state supposedly to care for these children. Instead a lot of the children were abused both phyiscally and secually.To try blame the Mothets families on this is so typical of the leaders both present and past.
@Kay Keane:@Kay Keane:there was no deserted wives payment either. I know of a family deserted by the father left to struggling to put food on the table
Marion – so what? Does that exclude the church from dumping dead babies into a sewage pit? Does that excuse the church of the laundries?
@Paul Fahey: the attitude was the remains of the “children of sin” deserved no better.
@Kay Keane: Correct , Dr Noel Browne tried to help but Fianna  Fail and Fine Gael stopped him.   We need to divorce the state from the church.     In that respect my admiration for Trump fails
@The Crant: It was the Roman Catholic Church, under John Charles McQuaid, which stopped the Mother and Child Scheme.
Some women may have given the children up but most were taken at birth wake up Enda don’t be a gob—– all your life
How can we expect the truth when we have politicians who have fathers mothers grandfathers who were in power when this was happening and this is why kenny is saying this because his father was a the heart of all this
On the money David. Anyone but us. To expect people to believe that nobody but the nuns and priests knew what was going on really is a stretch, even for most bigoted of atheists and let’s face it, TASC and it’s umbrella group, the Labour Party, are full of them.
Sean – where exactly does it say no one else but the nuns and priests knew? It doesn’t, but that would not allow you to defend and deflect from the church’s monstrous history of violence and rape in Ireland. To attack the organisation TASC whilst defending the church speaks volumes about you. When you are not bullying women on abortion forums you are defending the church in dumping dead babies into sewage, all whilst hiding behind behind a cloak of anonymity, cowardly in the extreme.
Paul killing of Jews in WWII was not confined to the few that operated the gas chambers. Same here the mother and baby homes are the tip of the ice berg. To even attempt to understand this a much wider picture is needed. For what i understand it was the state that set up and paid the religious orders to do this. Along with work houses we have our own people divided into sub human groups so that the unwashed can be managed by society and state. Yes religion was the tool being used no question of that but the hands that used these tools was the state
Tom – your nazi analogy make no sense, it was a small minority of nazi soldiers who operated the gas chambers, but many more were involved in rounding them up and delivering them to the chambers. The Nazis were very much as one in their objectives and the orders came from on high. Are you stating that the powers of the church, namely the Vatican, archbishops, cardinals etc were ordering the dumping of theses children in a sewage pit? By the same hand are you stating that they ordered the rape of thousands of children too? Did they also order the beatings and slave like servitude of the young Irish women in the laundries?
Paul can you point me to any post, any whatsoever where I have attempted to defend the RCC?  Atheist intolerant bigots like yourself are of a one track mind it seems, faith bashing. You will willingly give the state a free pass, even other Christian faiths it seems in order to continue your crusade against the RCC. Your bitterness runs so deep that you even bring abortion into it, as though to attempt to link my ‘defence’ of the RCC to my moral beliefs. You seem like a very confused individual bud. Probably a Gilmore’ite. Let your bitterness go before it devours you from the inside.
Oh sorry Paul. I also just noted your charge of me ‘bullying women on abortion forums’. Really?  Can you point those posts out as well please?  Just because somebody doesn’t subscribe to your looney left Kumbaya secular society nonsense and doesn’t share your poor moral standards when it comes to the life of the unborn, doesn’t give you the right to throw around bullying accusations. But of course that’s the way of the left isn’t it?  If you can’t debate, defame. Poor form.
@Sean @114: The Roman Catholic Nuns, Priests and Hierarchy as well as their collaborators were all operating under the umbrella and power of the Roman Catholic Church In Ireland.
I would have thought that this was obvious Tony. The RCC was complicit, the COI was complicit, state employees were complicit. It’s amazing that some atheist fanatics attempt to associate a call for more widespread responsibility as an attempt to defend the RCC. Do you not agree?  I am far from a defender of the Catholic Church. I haven’t been to a church since I was a teen, don’t abide by any of their rules or teachings and I don’t subscribe to the notion of a God. However I respect those who do. Faith is a private matter and in my opinion to defame somebody because of their faith is the equivalent of defaming them because of their ethnicity or skin colour. But that’s just my opinion. Is my moral stance on abortion, I only view it as acceptable in FFA or danger to mother’s life scenarios, formed in any way by religious teaching. Absolutely not. I simply believe in the right to life of the unborn. Simple as that really. It doesn’t sit well with some of the looney lefties but live and let live.
@Sean @114: the prime overs, the architect and the creator of the for profit baby farms in Ireland was the Roman Catholic Church In Ireland which directed the Irish State to stay out of mother and child issues and then used the stigma of illegitimacy, the criminalisation of condoms and Roman Catholic conditioning to make exploitative profits out of the misery of lone parents and “illegitimate children”.I know this to be true.It would be better not to be born at all than to endure such savage misery.
Sean – you mean like this little nugget from a Nov 2016 when there was a discussion about the rape of children by catholic priests and the church response to it:“Presumably because those parents believe in it. It has been extremely prevalent in sporting institutions too with cover-ups. Should parents stop their children from playing sport too? It’s a societal problem and even the cover-ups are by no means restricted to religious bodies.”So instead of talking about the church and its child rapists, you deflect to sports, as you have with the BBC in the past, protestants, state institutions…, there is always something else you would rather talk about. Or it could be in any occasion when you bleat on about atheists and scientists, or when you defend the indoctrination of children in Irish schools, or even the constant “it was everyone’s fault” about the Tuam babies etc etc etc….
Some of that is true Tony but the state ‘devolved’ control if these institutions to the RCC. And what of the Church of Ireland run institutions?  If the RCC had such overbearing power on the state, how come there were so many scandals involving protestant and COI homes?  That in itself is proof that there was a huge societal problem, no deflecting from RCC crimes as I know you have a crusade there, but the state itself has so much to answer for. Minister Boland I think it was at the time from FF who oversaw the process.
Ah I see Paul. So like I explained above in another post, and you’ve just proved the point here, any attempt to suggest to fanatical atheists, wider apportionment of blame, is seen as a defence of the church. So you are willing to turn a blind eye to widespread societal abuse because of your anti-church crusade. What narrow minded bigoted views you possess. I have repeatedly said, and again up above, that the RCC is to blame for scandals such as the baby and home but so too are Church of Ireland, state employees etc. Not defending at all Paul, simply expanding the scope.
Sean – there you go again, anyone but the Catholic Church.
Sean – no you are defending, always defending.
@Sean @114: Do you not remember the Mother and Child Scheme when the Roma  Catholic Church ousted the efforts of the then government to get involved in such welfare issues. The Roman Catholic Church in Ireland abrogated an effective monopoly to itself in the 1920s and continued this into the 1980s making an exploitative fortune.The scandals, limited as they were in evangelical bodies, did not involve the actual sale of babies from what were actual baby farms.I accuse the Roman Catholic Church.
Oh dear Paul. The offended one. Where am I defending Paul?  Straight question Paul. Do you tolerate those who have a faith?  Honest answer please. Your views can’t be taken seriously when you clearly possess such bigoted opinions. Paul, should any blame, any at all Paul, be apportioned to the state or other religious bodies with respect to the mother and baby home scandals?  I say yes the RCC was to blame, no defence whatsoever. I also say that state and other institutions were to blame. How about you Paul?  All papal abuse yes?
Tony totally agree.  You clearly have a burning desire for me to defend any aspect of the RCC. Which of course I will not do as I am not a believer nor follower. Any comment at all Tony on Kincora, Bethany, Evoca etc?  You need to balance your commentary more.
Sean – see my post above, 7 posts above where I said you would deflect to the protestants, thanks you are too obvious and could not help yourself even when I said you would do it.
Oh but Paul I didn’t deflect. I stated that the RCC was to blame PLUS others. Where did I defend Paul?  Oh and could you answer my questions Paul?  I can tolerate bible bashers, looney lefties even atheist fanatics but bigots should be outed and shunned. Where do you stand Paul?  Do you tolerate those with a faith?  It’s a simple question.  Your commentary on other articles would suggest that you are a bigot but perhaps you can set the record straight?
@Sean @114: you always distract. Kincora was Northern Ireland and operated by another extremist religion with similarities tio extreme Roman Cotholicis. The others you mention were tint in scale comparfed to the Roman Catholic 180 institutions, were evangelical in nature but at least did not oopeeate baby farms on an industrial scale. I point the finger at the prime offender, the ring leaders, the nastiest and most oppressive of them all in Ireland, namely the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, the State religion which operates under the auspices of a foreign malignat temporal power, the Vatican.
Tony ‘scant in nature’ 227 bodies dumped into an unmarked grave. SCANT where is your outrage Tony. You’re coming across as an apologist for any abuse that cannot be laid squat
..laid square at the door of the RCC. You are defending other abuse Tony by ‘deflecting’ and attempting to trivialise this abuse. Don’t tell me that you have double standards Tony, surely not. You do apply the same scrutiny to other institutions’s abuse as you do to the RCC Tony, yes?  Let’s presume so as otherwise you would be a hypocrite Tony.
@Sean @114: please identify then the worst institution, even worse, if that is at all possible than the institution of the Roman Catholic Church.
Well done, Sinead. Sick and tired of the ridiculous “we are all to blame” nonsense from last week… Only one party was responsible, and that was the Catholic Church, and it’s agents embedded in the state institutions that manipulated and threatened our society.
How could Mr. kenny get it so wrong? Just listen to that man on Liveline this week where his mother was forcibly removed from her Father when she got pregnant. The Father then fought the State to have her and her child returned to him to be loved and taken care of. But, no dice. She was locked up in an institution in Cavan while her boy was sent to an industrial school in Kilkenny. And all the while they had a Father/grandfather who was pleading with the State to have them returned
@Gulliver Foyle: excellent comment. On the nail.
The gardai are firstly protectors of the state ,then the person .The state orders were to return these girls from whence they fled . The parents of the “fallen” daughter lived when they would b “denounced” from the alter if she was allowed return to the family home,the parish even !!.This (according to the brain washing of the time) meant they couldn’t go to mass ,which meant their souls were dammed for” all eternity” ,if their daughter returned home .There was no dole ,and the priest had all the sway with who got a job ,so u and ur family were dammed in the job dept.also if ur daughter came back ,hence the granny (those of kind disposition) often said the baby of their daughter was their own youngest .This was all government backed ,and we know who was in government,stuck up the Catholic Church for votes .But!just in case anyone forgets its still potentially life threatening to get pregnant in Ireland ,as state and church are still stuck up there between ur womb and ur attending physician .
My mother was brought up by her grandmother as her daughter. She only found out her “sister” was her real mother when she got her birth certificate in preparation for marriage at 21. She only told me when I was in my mid 50′s. That was Holy Catholic Ireland.
@William Grogan: Holy catholic ireland still run this country.   Everyone seems to forget that there was always a man involved in getting these girls pregnant.   These men were the girls father, brother, uncle, grandfather, priest, do-gooder in the parish or just some man in the parrish.   Not 1 man will ever have to answer for all these girls getting pregnant.  The country turned a blind eye to what was happening in the homes to any family that was not up there with all the do-gooders.   It’s still going on & when anyone who is abused go to the police they are guilty until they are proven inocent.
That was your grandmother, not the church.
Oh come on Shawn, why on earth do u think the grandmother raised the child as her own? Because the church sham d women pregnant outside of marriage and their families.
@Jeanette McDonald: Yes, the Roman Catholic Church crated the stigma and the taboo. It created the ostracism and the Roman Catholic Church financially benefited from the large scale baby sales to the United States.
I agree with everything expressed above. But if you think Enda has problems understanding what really went on, wait until you hear Fianna Fail on the issue. They are much more socially conservative and were in power for most of the period that this horrific system of mother and child care was in place. Even when the extent of clerical abuse was being revealed, Bertie and Cowan couldn’t bring themselves to condemn publicly the Roman Church. Hence Woods’s decision to limit the religious orders’ exposure to victim compensation.
@Jane Aelst:The entire Residential Institutions Redress Board compensation scheme was flawed.  Applicants had to agree to secrecy because they didn’t have to prove they were abused in these institutions to qualify for compensation – they only had to prove they were former residents – and letting their allegations become public knowledge would have exposed the Redress Board to being sued for defamation.  The State was wrong not to put limits on the amounts of taxpayers’ money it contributed to the scheme.
@Ciarán Masterson: It was the Roman Catholic Church which did most of the actual abusing. It should pick up most of the tab.
@Tony Daly:Of course the State had to pay some compensation because it put many of these children in those institutions but not every child who was a resident in those institutions was raped or fondled.
@Ciarán Masterson: abusing is not limited to raping or that horrible minimising euphemism that child molesters use “fondling”, an expression that use with reference to molesters makes my skin crawl.
Anyway.The best thing Enda could do now is shut his gob and head off for his final trip to the White House.Enda Kenny has spent the last 42 years in Dail Eireann living through an era when many of these homes still existed.These women were no concern of his. His only concern was his own career and the creation of a political dynasty in Mayo.It’s all about protecting the establishment now.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: the Roman Catholic Church and Roman Catholic political.establishment are being protected . The establishment in Ireland is Roman Catholic.
@Tony Daly:Anyway, whatever……what I said.
Just like the women and children were of no concern to the church, Emmet
The Catholic Church from the foundation of the state were hand in glove with governments to make unsavoury problems like unmarried mothers go away. This wonderful church has held the development of the Irish state behind the rest of Europe for generations.
Enda Kenny has a habit of bearing false witness. Enda Kenny tells lies. It is in his natureA recurring theme in Ireland is how the power institutions in Ireland tell lies.The Roman Catholic Church is a major institution of power in Ireland. It tells lies, it obfuscates, evades and conceals. It denies the truth knowing that it’s loyal adherents will want to believe in the denials.  It’s Armoy of misinformation carry the lies and denials on social media.Politics and religion are an especially toxic mix in Ireland.
@Tony Daly: “Politics and religion are an especially toxic mix in Ireland.” I have agreed with that statement since I attended a Christian Brothers school in the 1980′s and figured out for myself that the religious orders had an immense and insidious power over virtually every aspect of daily life.
@Brian McDonnell: I attended the Christian Brothers after I was in the care of the nuns. This was from 1954 to 1970. I experienced what this was about.
Have to say I found Endas points very valid regarding this sad situation. The church and state stepped in where families neglected or were unable to fulfil  their duties of looking after the next generation.It’s two easy to blame bogey men of ” political elites ”  or the “church” for what took place here. If every family had looked after their own these homes would not have come into existence.  Have met a lot of people in Ireland and have yet to meet any political elite member parish pump politics means all our politicians are approachable and more then likely found in the local pub. I can also say any members of the church I have met have always acted in what I considered the honourable route.Am sure I will get a high red thumb count for this belief but have to agree with Endas opinions and words on this matter.
I know of a family that was forcibly removed from their family home after their mother was taken to ill and kept in a mental institution despite the father being fit and able to look after the kids 3 of whom in their teens they were removed and split up.The fathers only crime was that he worked in a good job from 8-5. So the church decided he couldn’t look after the children and took them.He would call to both intitutions 3 times a week for years to see his children but was never allowed,Eventually he bacame an alcoholic and died at a very young age.All of the boys were sexually abused and the girls treated like animals and forced to tend the needs of the Nuns.This was the same level of torture as imposed by the Nazis on the Jews.
@brian boru: Well I can tell you as a survivor my siblings and I were from 10 months, 4, 5, 8 and 10 years old our mother had become ill and hospitalised for many months. My dad had a visit from the nuns and was told he had to give his children up, he WAS NOT ALLOWED to take care of his own children (this wasn’t allowed back in 1966)  – my dad had no choice in the matter, and not only that he had to pay for us to be “looked after” in one of those places – the horror and terror we suffered under the hand of B*TCHES OF NUNS and lay people you could never understand unless you went through it yourself and the affect it has had on all of us for the past 50 years – even the way we were treated by society and school after coming out has had just as much effect as the place and nuns itself.
My great grandfather was put in Artane by his catholic teacher because he was left handed.How did his family fail him ?.
You are either a troll or an idiot.I was sent to an orphanage for missing school and abused there at age 6. I was sent to Letterfrack industrial school at age 12 for 3 years for a small crime. My father and mother went to every member of the Dail in our area including Charlie Haughy to get me released to no avail. I would suggest that anyone who has not been jailed by the State or has suffered under them and is still suffering in their old age should keep their mouth shut about what they do not know or have experience of. Check out my book Survivor. For a true story of Survival.
The earlier message was in response toBrian Brou.
Neither a troll nor an idiot ( I hope)  afraid just have an opinion on the matter based on my own personal experiences.Will check your book out though to have a look at your experience.  Well done on publishing a book about your experiences.
You seem to have opinions on everything based on your “own personal experience”. You showed yourself to be very experienced in LGBT lives, you seem to know all about being pregnant in a bad situation and now your vast experience on life in industrial schools allows you to stick your oar in with a sense of validy when those who went through this horror are finding their voices. The common denominator of all you vacuous spoutings is that your head is ten miles up the Catholic Church’s stinking arse. There are so many good people in this Church. You are not one.
Not a church goer and apologies for not having the same opinions as yourself. I won’t comment without checking with you first to make sure that you are happy with my opinions.
So many people, especially women, suffered under the repressive society that was Ireland of the past. This was not unique to Ireland however but we were, compared to many other democratic states, even more repressed. The role of the Church was certainly more powerful. However, to try to suggest as many do here that it was solely Church and State is to deny the reality that the pervasive societal norms of the times were much more judgmental and cruel than today. People had an entirely different perspective and outlook on life and this was embedded in the culture of which the Church and State were part. Trying to interpret that reality through the lens of present day society is a waste of time. It was its own moral universe. A universe that is entirely alien to us now and positively bizarre to those who were not yet born. This society persisted in many ways into the late 1980s and even beyond. The 8th amendment to the Constitution was also a dying reflex of this Ireland.Thank goodness that Ireland is now gone.  But let us not make the mistake please that somehow it would all have been different if there had been “a few good men”. If only the State or the politicians “stood up”. All of us are creatures of our society and culture. Very very few have the capacity to leap beyond these constraints. Some tried however and they were punished. Most couldn’t and didn’t even think they had a choice. Culture can be a straitjacket and a perverted culture a noose.
@John R: So where is god in all of this? it’s not alien to us, we still having nations being built and functioning  on the notion that we are god’s children, one god’s children. you’re in a bubble if you don’t see what’s so obvious. the catholic church is the largest provider of education and health care around the world, religious people create sick societies with sick cultures, this was realised in the enlightenment by some people.
@BrianThat might be due to the fact that you are the same  sort of spineless, obnoxious idiot as your puppet master, the despicable weasel Kenny
Your Usual level of intelligent comment Matt- but to be expected from some one of your back ground -
@brian boru:  “very valid” is empty rhetoric. Something is valid or invalid, if it logic, and true or false if it fact.On this case Enda Kenny’s position is both invalid and untrue in absolute terms.
@Stephen Maher: This confirms my finding,  if parents tried to get their kids back the courts refused to agree.
“PILLARS OF SOCIETY” that’s what they were called.politicians, Gda ,Church.if you opened your mouth against them you would lose your job, family,home,job,even your freedom.the ordinary people lived in fear of them.but they now try to deflect and blame all in society.
@@mdmak33: The common denominator (lowest) of all the so called “Pillars of Society” was the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland.
Our deluded Enda is still under the impression that we the people of this banana republic are fools , he will sail off into the sunset with his big pension and still be convinced that he’s done a great service for us
Enda , i dislike like you .. Dislike on a level with Bertie …
I trust Catherine Corless more than I trust Enda Kenny.I think that Enda Kenny is complicit in the later stages of the scandal.
It’s one thing being collectively blamed for the Recession, but for the systematic, state-sponsored physical and sexual assault of Irish women and their children over the course of decades… well now Enda, we all partied did we?
I really took exception to his speech. Trying to spread the blame onto everyone, rather than those responsible. Totally ignoring the fact that these same organisations are running our schools!
Baby stealing, baby farms, illegal sales of babies, baby neglect and baby starvation and all perpetrated by the Roman Catholic Church in close collusion with Roman Catholic Church dominated civil authorities.  That is the truth.
You can blame it all on the church if you want .. call it what you want .. but those girls parents played a part in this too .
@Suzie Sunshine: oh yeah, blame people living in fear of eternal hell fire. mortal sin, a form of psychological torture.
@Suzie Sunshine: the people had no alternative but to obey the repressive and evil Roman Catholic Church unless they were willing to go into immediate exile.
The Roman Catholic Church ruled and still rules the politicians, the judiciary, the organs of State, and elements of the media, part of academia, an Garda Siochana and society.The influence of the Roman Catholic Church is pervasive, insidious, comprehensive, abusive and powerfully protective of its own interests.Power lies. Power denies the truth. The Roman Catholic Church is power.Separate the Roman Catholic Church from the State.
@Tony Daly:   It’s far to easy to put all the blame on church hierarchies or political elites.  Churches are churches because people attend them, finance them and believe in their teachings.Since the 1920s, all Irish governments have been voted for by Irish people.  Younger people are obviously excused responsibility for things that happened before they were born.
Terry, maybe now but not then.  Then, people were ruled completely by fear, by public shaming, by clergy swaying the courts.  People were brainwashed, many poorly educated, and ALL afraid.  This is on the church and the politicians.However, let it be a lesson, we don’t get to escape without blame again.
Kick them off the island.
@Terry McClatchey: since the 1920s Ireland has been a theocracy ruled by the cruel Crozier of the Roman Catholic Church.Look what happened to the Mother and Child Scheme when Archbishop McQuaid bullied the Government into submission.
I am willing to accept that Enda Kenny was personally and directly complicit in the mother and baby farm scandals. He wants to share responsibility let him take his responsibility.
There is clearly a common theme in the response to these scandals! Victim blaming, helps to suppress the truth from emerging, sullies the credibility of the victims, absolves those in authority charged with responsibility while protecting the guilty. And if you can throw a juicey bone to the legal profession via a tribunal then you can rest easy as they’ll never bite the hand that feeds them!
Thats it exactly Jarlath, the same with the housing and every other crisis! !The lawyers wont take on the government or the banks,as guess who has the most money ,the perpetrators of course
The sad thing is that most of the founders of religious orders who provided healthcare or education were visionaries who provided a vital service, usually to the poor. They would be appalled and disgusted at the perversion that emerged. Edmund Rice, founder of the Christian Brothers, forbade corporal punishment in his schools, yet Christian Brother schools were synonymous with abuse and violence. I suppose what Gandhi said about us Christians is true, we are so unlike our Christ.
@Thomas McGilly: especially the Irish version.  It was the hypocrisy that made it so brutal and so deadly.  The more society held itself forth as po-facedly uniquely ‘pure’ the worse the outrages that could be committed against the most vulnerable, especially if there was a buck to be made from it.  No different from today, with the highly resourced campaigns supported by lucrative abortion mill providers like Planned Parenthood get their way.  Was it Marx or Hegel said it repeats always, as tragedy and farce?  Well here more often than not, just as the Irish were alleged to have been deemed impossible to psycho-analyse by Freud, (they weren’t, but it makes a point) here it tends to be tragedy and tragedy.  All concealed beneath the obligatory whited sepulchre that is closes to the vice it conceals as a virtue. Back then ‘respectability’ and ‘purity’; today ‘choice’, ‘because I’m worth it’, etc.
@John O’Driscoll: back up, I have the right to control my reproductive organs. chastity and abstinence fail when you include things like rape etc I honestly don’t know when you are bringing a secular pro choice ideals aka no coercion via religion into a discussion about how unholy god’s people can be?
Eh no enda. 90% of those women were sent there by there families because they had broken Catholic law and shamed the family. What happens while they were there is a massive shame on Ireland. I think Ireland should take the holy see to the European courts and recoup the loses of the country paying compo to victims. They did this. They should pay! They have the money!
sorry but i have letters from the Sisters of charity in kilkenny, who wrote to my grandmother to let her no that her sons, my  da and his brother are with us, and were taken away because we understand you were going through a bad time.then they were move to other schools when they got older, so do the journal; want these letters, and pass them on to enda.
And what about the children who were “stolen for sale” by the institutions & not “given up to the nun’s care”
@Brendan O Brien: They have been “saved” same excuse the british used to control most of the world, would be good just to be greedy, one has to do under th guise of doing the lords work. it’s genius really.
TASC a leftie looney Labour party chin wagging shop. Asking them to comment on baby homes is like asking the Pope to comment on Lourdes. Yes let’s just wring our hands of it and pin it on a group of geriatric nuns. Nothing could be done. It was RCC dogma that was to blame. The state and it’s citizens had to no choice but to condemn it’s children to institutions and industrial schools. Pathetic, but you would expect no less from the Labour Party and it’s supporters, that group that abandoned and impoverished the working class in it’s last term and they claim to be concerned with social issues.
@Sean @114:Ruari Quinn was on here the other day spouting some awful Trotskyist nonsense about the state appropriating all religious schools.This is the type of fundamentalist secularism that inspires TASC.
@Emmet O’Keeffe:you crack me up. Ruari Quinn is on the right wing of the right of centre Labour Party and you describe him as expressing “Trotskyist” remarks.You must be to the right of UKIP to express such blithering and reactionary nonsense.
You are so right.  My own mother lived in fear and shame directly related to the power and control of the church, who deliberately imposed their will on every aspect of people’s lives; I witnessed it – it ruined her life.
@Little Diddy No: Kinda explains why women can be priests now, hatred.
TASCThe Iona Institute of Ireland’s far left.
I was going to ask who funds TASC ?
@lavbeer:It has charitable status.Labour inspired think tank.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: as partly sponsored by the Jesuit Centre for Faith and Justice
@Tony Daly:That’s a bad thing isn’t it?
@Emmet O’Keeffe: why would it be a bad thing for a social reformist and honest arm of deeply corrupt church to be on the side of truth and Justice?It does not fit your reactionary and fundamentalist  agenda.  There are good people at the margins of the Roman Catholic Church.
@Tony Daly:Speaking of fundamentalist agendas.
@TonySorry Tony but the Jesuits had their fair share of sexual abuse incidents all over the world most notably in Germany and stateside!They see themselves superior to the rest of the church but they are cut from the same cloth!
Couldn’t be bothered reading it so as I don’t know who is behind the opinion.
@Matt Beaumont: true but a small strand, such as McVerry and others are trying to be different.
@TonyTrue, I know a decent Jesuit myself, we went to school together.The Jesuits are half decent compared to the rest.Still apart from the one I know for a long time now I wouldn’t trust them either.
@Matt Beaumont: I agree as  an overall comment and as a general rule. Perhaps, there can be an occasional exception to prove the rule.The test is this. Would I leave a child with them? Certainly not.
Brian Boru is just an FG and Enda Kenny mouth piece.
Totally agree. Well said
Brian Boru is not a troll. His comments merely display a sycophantic idiocy for his personal pontiff,  the Taoiseach.
Many’s a father dragged a ”fallen” daughter to the door of the nuns and left them there.  Many’s a mother told him to.  The Church at the State’s behest provided a horrible brutal cold and cruel alternative to the ”plague of infanticide” a judge of the Irish courts had noted in the earliest years of the last century was sweeping the land, in response to society’s own judgement of those who fell short, at least ostensibly, and in a manner that could not long be concealed, of the sui generis manifest destiny exceptionalist and deluded weltenshauung that saw the Irish as some sort of non-pareil in moral purity.Let’s wait for the centenary of the Civil War, and then open the stinking foul fetid pit of that sepulchre to the four winds and really let the world see how whited we are, the things that we could do to each other in that time.  The Ballyseedy Bomb is only a firecracker in comparison to what went on across the board in terms of our national sports of cowardice inhumanity and rapine.
I remember it and I know about it.  Kenny is right, the courts always sent children to industrial schools.  It was the law and the courts never went against the church or Gardai when it came to children.
@The Crant: all organs of State governed and directed by the all dominant oppression of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland.
This country has been always a nanny state to the deprement of its citizens, democracy is a bull,**** word to cover a multitude of hidden gastly secrets
Let’s keep the cover up going eh !………  how the ‘ell   did clueless Kenny ever get elected, let alone slither his way to leadership of the country. Remember his accountability and responsibility election promises, I mean fairytales, back in the day. He takes no accountability or responsibility for anything and has the cheek to blame the Irish people for everything from the stolen and murdered babies to the banking crisis, when he does not do what the Irish people want. In some ways he may have a point as it’s the Irish people that have allowed the likes of this liar and snake to break his election promises over and over again and what’s even worse is he will be off to Europe soon to join his pal Phil the Pig Hogan on multiple pensions and a huge salary all paid by the Irish People. FFS wake up Ireland.
For an eastern european like me, this whole thing is fascinating. Reminds me of the late eighties/early nineties, when the communist parties lost the propaganda war. And yes, the catholic church and their modus operandi are very similar tho the the comunist party, although their “enemy of the people” was different. An advise to Irish politicians – turn dissident as soon as you can. The church boat is sinking, and in another 10 years their supporters will be the equivalent of the golden oldies waving flags on the Red square.
@Zmeevo Libe: excellent perspective and comparison. The Roman Catholic Church in Ireland was an autocratic theocracy which was highly intrusive and operated hand in glove with the Roman Catholic dominated Garda Siochana.
Thankfully you use the past tense there Tony. Indeed it was a malign influence on the state. Thankfully those days are all but over as the same sex referendum proves. Ireland has moved on and the corruption and abuse that now takes place is largely at state hands.
@Sean @114: Sadly these days are far over as the cover up and the circling of the wagons takes place and whilst we still have Roman Catholic dogma in the Irish Constitution and whilst the Roman Catholic Church continues to control education, health, social policy and the moral life of the country.AS for the same sex marriage Referendum, that was civil law matter and some priests and theologians actually supported the Referendum.
Enda and FF have requested reports and inquiries on condition the people writing the various reports don’t interview the Whistle blowers and the church etc. Talk about false news this is false reporting. Teflon Bertie now Cover up Enda.
Is there or has there ever been a worse kip in the world then the banana republic evil island.?
@Gerry Dunne: a true Republic is not governed by a religion, in this case Roman Catholicism. I accept the banana part but not the republic part.
For a leader of this country you are way off the mark and do not either know or want to know the full facts.
Enda, get your finger out and man up and stop time wasting,  this is not going to go away until every last perpetrator is named and shamed and the family’s of those who suffered are fully and truly acknowledged.  This is a no brainer.  The Church had indoctrinated the ordinary man and woman of this county into fear and submission and yes they put their girls into Mother and baby homes out of pure fear and under threats by the hierarchy and patriarchy.  No mention of the men that helped make these babies either, where were they??
I wish to compliment the author, Sinead Pembroke, on an excellent, accurate, informative and timely article.
The Roman Catholic Church pretends to pray; in reality the Roman Catholic Church preys.
Never rely on the Roman Catholic Church for honesty, compassion, decency or humanity.It is an institution built on lies and on the gross and egregious abuse of privilege and power.
This is terrible nonsense. When the Head of Government says ‘We gave them over to the nuns’ care’ etc. It is an acceptance of the fact that the Government ie the State was also responsible. But you’ve just misconstrued that ‘We’ and went on a purposeless rant. Listen more and rant less.
@Siobhan Farragher: You are historically correct.  It was our forebears who did this.   They supported it and they would always ask children coming home from school if they got any slaps and if the answer was no,  there would be a sight of disappointment.
Is it not true to say,  that the problem we as a nation have is that a large majority need a lot of persuading to accept our ancestors and their republic did this?.     Same with the Gardai.    What ever happened is past ans cannot be changed. All that can be done is persuade a majority it is true.    What good will that do us?     A head or 2 might roll, but the system is hardly changed.    All that changes is the nature of the corruption.We would be much better create a solid independent corp of Gardai with powers to investigate every allegation from a criminal perspective and bring charges.     Next change our government.  Voters will not do that
The Roman Catholic Church and its servile minions are to blame.
Ironic those who berate others and other ages for brutality towards the smallest most vulnerable most ”socially dead” of children, born and unborn as the records of Tuam show,  with one side of the mouth while calling for the legalisation of homicide-for-convenience of unborn children with the other side.  So ironic you could trade it on the commodities markets. Tch.
@John O’Driscoll: “homicide for convenience of unborn children”….  You mean aborting a foetus, right?  Try to use the proper words for things.  If you go to buy wood and the supplier brings you acorns, you might see the importance of using the correct terms.
@Dell: Please don’t patronise me with your warmed over bromides arguments and platitudes.  Between us there is a philosophical gulf that can never be crossed, except by some sort of internal metanoia that’s rare enough.  You see unborn human beings as tumours, lumps of tissue that may be excised at will for the sake of convenience, or potential persons at best, fine if they’re wanted and loved, to be dumped if not.  I do not.  I see them as unique, precious, irreplaceable, and entitled to the same human rights as the rest of us who can suck air and feed ourselves and develop unaided and unreliant on the temporary use of another’s body who, in  most cases, made the choice to engage in actions that gave rise to certain responsibilities according to increasingly superannuated moral codes.  The same human rights, including, primus inter pares, as is the mother’s right to life over the infants according to the constitutional status quo, the UN Declared Human Right To Life.Go patronise someone else who might be impressed by it, Dell.
@John O’Driscoll: wow.. You could give courses on patronising.  How about you go do a course tjough on minding your own business?  You, fortunately for you, never have had to worry about pregnancy, giving birth, supporting a child on your own, health risks etc. So you can preach your utter rubbish all day long but in reality, you know absolutely nothing about it and it really really is none of your business.  So likewise, go patronise somewhere else with your “homicide of unborn children” bs and holier than though attitude about other people’s lives.
It’s a straight up stand up knock down fight between those of us who see groups of humans as disposable and those of us who do not, and in this case it starts and ends at the ballot box.  You know nothing about me Dell, but in keeping with your clear preference comment away on that of which you know nothing, give the rest of us a laugh or a tear or perhaps a bit of both.
@John O’Driscoll: I know a damn sight more about pregnancy, being a single parent, giving birth than you ever will given I possess a womb and have children.  What is comical is to see your comments, full of complete pomposity and the deliberate use of incorrect terms to over emote a subject that has nothing to do with you.The only correct thing you have said is that it is a matter for the ballot box but some of your pro foetus comrades seem to be afraid of it going to a vote and have tried to impede it every step of the way.  You are all a national joke at this stage.
@John O’Driscoll: Have an abortion when you get a womb John, in the time being I’m sure there are some anti war, famine relief, conflict resolution groups you can lend your humanity to. Your just a womb spectator at the moment.
I am a human being, and as such I object to half of humanity arrogating to itself, or rather a strident and compassion less minority of same, the power of life and death over all of humanity at its smallest and most vulnerable stage.Especially as there’s so much money to be made out of it, as betokened by the powerful industrial-corporate-financial interests supporting and funding that strident minority of half the world’s population, who see human beings as inconveniences at times to be cut out and dumped.I’m also a father, a son, a family member, a member of society, and a voter. All of which entitle me to as much a say in this matter from my PoV as you are entitled to yours. You won’t be “deplatforming” me here bud.
Dell, don’t bother criticising my English yeah? I know how to write and I know that I know it so waste your energies attacking my argument not my literary style. As for your hysterical assertions, I’m a father, and a Dad, because any boll0c ks can be the former it takes balls to be the latter and have always stood up for my kids.  Just the same as you stand up for yours I’m sure. But quit polishin your halo and trying to portray vice as virtue.  Homicide for convenience is any form of homicide that is not justifiable by self-defence from clear and present extrinsic threat, whether that be invading Iraq on the basis of lies and forged evidence and greed, or ripping a baby from its mother’s womb because it’s existence doesn’t suit the agenda of she or others, including the vastly profiting abortuary.
@John O’Driscoll:… You forgot that you are also a pompous womb less twit who likes to have his say on what happens in women’s wombs.  Have your say, by all means, but expect it to be shown up for the drivel that it is.  “homicide of unborn children”  if you are going to use incorrect terms to try further your cause of controlling what women do with their bodies, expect to have your comments criticised.
@John O’Driscoll: its a foetus John and John, until you can actually get pregnant, bear the risks of pregnancy and labor, we are nowhere near even footing.  Youre a dad, whopee do! How was labor for you? It must have been tough making the decision to put your health and life at risk to have a baby.. Oh wait, no, no you didn’t and you never will have to so please, give it a rest. As for standing up for your kids, I hope you will do the same if they ever chose to terminate a pregnancy for any reason, I know I will.
Dell, you haven’t even got the balls to write under your own name lol.  When and if you find them then feel free to lash with some credibility my alleged personal failings :)Meanwhile when you find an objective argument rebutting my objective argument, I’ll leave you to pick them out yourself from my “drivel”, feel free to move your lips while reading, come back to me. Til then away with your overinflated sense of self entitlement. There’ll always be plenty like me to stick a pin in it for you.
@John O’Driscoll: I don’t see the connection between this subject and abortion.    The Tuam thing was horrid,   if you feel abortion is horrid, then why not bring it up with Mary Robbinus, she said banning US abortion would cause home abortions.
@John O’Driscoll: and away with you womb watcher.  Again, how was pregnancy and labor for you?  Look I’m a dad, I’m amazing, I think other people should be forced to carry on with pregnancies because I’m a dad and I’m amazing.  That is the sum total of your argument and it’s rubbish.  Grow a womb and get back to me, preferably using the correct terms.  Otherwise good luck building furniture with acorns.
@John O’Driscoll: how do you do it John? Your a catholic right? Living in a country with emergency contraception, everyone knows that murder :/ Ireland doing multiple trade deals with all these child murder countries, like the UK right on your counties border. Child murder, legal. And to think Enda’s going to shake hand with Trump, his country murders criminals aka innocents  even Ireland doesn’t have that :o does Enda support child murder and state murder? Is Trump powerful enough to stop the carnage in the wombs of women who should know better? someone think of the children, say a prayer to our lord and saviour, provider of everlasting life?Enough joking anyways, which scientist or moral authority told that abortion was murder? enlighten us please.
The nons and church and political leaders have no excuse for al the crime done on irish children’s and young mothers , THIS IS E REAL REVELATION!!!- NO CHURCH WORK IN THE BENEFIT OF HUMANS!!!- hOW CAN YOU DO THE SIGN OF CROS WHEN YOU GO TO BED AS A NOON, PRIEST OR POLITICIAN WHEN YOU DO THINKS LIKE THAT FOR ANIMALIC PLEASURE ALL IN THE NAME OF GOD. this case need a big process like the Nuremberg!!!. Hypocrite politicians want to put in jail children for have a diferent opinions and for protesting like the one in Jobstown with a couple of eggs and bad words  …..just saying .
Irish political class always  sold out the Irish citizens to the Catholic Church because it suited and still does to this day their agenda of foreign control. Like Irish fishing, oil and gas were given away and report after report of abuse to young Teenagers, boys girls and women to a child abusing child trafficking organisation which had the power of the os called  Irish state to enforce its agenda with out question. any politician, garda,judiciary that was part of or helped in such deeds still alive should be in court to face prison sentences and to pay back the effected families.
Qualitatively little to pick between shoving kids and mothers into brutal church run at state behest homes for the sake of convenience to the shovers, not least their financial profit, and legalising shoving women and their unborn children into abortuaries to have the one from the other untimely ripped and dropped into a bucket while soliciting her Visa card.  Just semantics really. Like what is a human being with this nebulous and oft traduced UN Right To Life?
Suppose the kids in the not so tender care of nuns and state/church (for in many ways they were both indistinguishable, Christ-And-Caesar-Hands-In-Mailed-Gauntlet) had some chance of survival to a relatively independent and marginally less harsh life beyond those walls.  Not so today’s smallest social jetsam. No climbing out of that Planned Parenthood bucket.
We can only dream of an Ireland that will one day be free from the oppression of the roman caltick cult. Time to sieze their land,assets and bank accounts. Time to make public the billions that have been sent to the vatican bank from ireland over the last 60 years. We can start with the bishops palace in Drumcondra. Time to remove them from schools and hospitals. Will we ever have a govt that wont pander to them? So long as FF,FG or SF is on the cards it wont happen, all firmly in bed with the church.
Let’s break down the language in this article.Kenny ‘let’s the church completely off the hook.’Please help me because I’m missing something here. What did Enda Kenny say that completely lets the Catholic Church off the hook?If he said such a thing I would like help with the quote so I can write to him to protest.Perhaps the author of the article can quote what Kenny said which let’s the Catholic Church completely off the hook.
@Tom Burke: he doesn’t need to, they have mouthpieces such as yourself to claim they knew nothing about rape, abuse and incarceration. When the nazis were shown to be what they were, they were brought to justice but more importantly they were removed from power and from legally operating.  The church should be run out of this country and if you still want to be part of it, you are more than welcome to follow it.
@Tom Burke:   Father Tom Burke, you are the culprit in the pulpit.You are the obsessional in the confessional.You are the ambition before contrition.
Thanks Dell.So where did Enda Kenny completely let the church off the hook?Quote please??
@Tom Burke: Although your question is directed to Dell, I have read the article above and this is my conclusion.The author analyses Enda Kenny’s statements and she concludes, drawing an inference, which is supported by Kenny’s remarks that the Nuns did not kidnap the babies, that we, Irish society voluntarily and willingly surrender the babies to the Nuns. That infers, if you accept that Enda Kenny said that it was society’s and the family’s fault, that the intention and the purpose is to let the Nuns and the Roman Catholic Church off the hook.What we see here, Father Tom Burke, is a cynical attempt by the Roman Catholic Church and its ardent supporters, to pass the parcel and to evade the culpability which actually lies with the Roman Catholic Church as the hands on and immediate perpetrators.The Roman Catholicv Church is the prime perpettrat. The politicians were accessories after the fact.
Im amazed at enda, he had to get someone else to script a speech for him? couldnt speak from his own mind,,,,,,
No, Enda Kenny has said many things about this  horror from “truly appalling” to “sickening breach of trust”. He appears to be  making a reference to our society at the time which included a superior and condemning judiciary and an ignorant and shame-driven community. They combined rushed these women into the homes. Not the nuns.
@Lisa Callanan: who made the community “shame driven?
@Dell: priests to this day won’t “bless” “illegitimate” babies.
@Lisa Callanan: you manage to ignore the herd of stampeding elephants in the room, the Roman Catholic Church which controlled everything and ruled by fear and stigma.
DellWould you label this guy a womb watcher also or as a professional who performed 1,200 abortions has he a valid contribution to make?https://youtu.be/ylSforUeq0c
@Tom Burke:  stíl relying on descriptions of late term abortions, the ones that are done in cases of FFA and when a womans health is at risk and are extremely rare tom to try fight your woman Hating cause?  Also loving that it’s a man talking on behalf of women hurt.  Tom, it’s a likelihood that abortion in cases of FFA will be performed in this country or when the mothers health is at risk.. Sure they aren’t pleasant but neither is going full term to watch a baby die in agony or to risk ones life to bring one into the world.  Funny that he doesn’t describe an abortion in the first 9 weeks which is when most take place. Why is that tom?  That would be because he would be describing a heavy period. I know you have a problem with women mentioning periods, you’ve made that clear on a few occasions but given as it is a part of the reproductive cycle, you will have to get over it, and yourself.  The man is very much entitled to his opinion and he was entitled to change his mind about abortion, that was his choice,  Im all about choice for born living human beings tom.
DellIf you have no issue with body parts (limbs) being counted to complete the abortion then I think you need to have a deep think about it.Abuse me all you like but this isn’t about me. This is about abortion.
@Tom Burke:  in the case of late term abortions, it’s the lessor of two evils and I have no issue with it.  So no, I have no issue with it. In early abortions that isn’t the case so you must be ok with that then? Yeah?
@Tom Burke: you worry about the foetus but not the disposed and disposable unsold babies which were discarded.
TonyA civilised society would worry about both and the mother.
‘Two evils’A Freudian slip methinks.
@Tom Burke: pick away at whatever you want..  No one wants to have a ffa or a late term abortion.. Some people chose to have a late term abortion in cases of ffa or where the womans health is at risk. Having an abortion at that stage is incredibly traumatic for a woman both physically and emotionally as these are wanted pregnancies and these women wanted their babies…  It is hardly the lesser of two goods then is it tom?  Either way, there you are trying to make out that women are having late term abortions as the norm so as you can push your anti choice agenda.  Work away tom, you have zero credibility, the fact that you still blindly follow an organisation that is refusing to pay what it owes to its victims, hid the perpetrators of rape and is still protecting some and has always had an anti woman agenda from its churching of women post birth to its incarceration of unmarried mothers, pushing the use of symphysiotomy, fighting schemes that would help pregnant women and of course its stand on contraception.. You and your religion would be a joke if it hadn’t caused so much actual harm.
Boy you’re angry today.“Dell hath no fury like a woman scorned” :)
@Tom Burke: the fact that it doesn’t make you angry and you chose to back them in every article that reveals more of their wrongdoing  shows you for the cold, controlling piece of excrement that you are. Your a Catholic apologist, nothing more, possibly something less.
Dell.You have no idea what makes me angry.I just don’t feel compelled to tell the world every time.I guess what makes me angry are a la carte morals.
@Tom Burke: then look in the mirror and prepare to get angry, you complete hypocrite.Oh and Tom.. I’ve seen you get angry and it’s more to do with you being in control of everything and everyone,Have a lovely Sunday tom.. Maybe go for a run.. You have a lot of issues and it might help.
Well said Sinead.
From the guy who sat in a press…
We were mad enough to reelect him!!!
A fridge?
Oh Bertie Bertie Bertie… Why in God’s name do you do it to yourself?
Bertie get lost you broke this country.
Ff  were in government while all those kids wereabused !!
Which kids? When you add the word ‘all’ you are going to have to add Fine Gael and Labour to your statement
@⚡ Seánie ⚡: Next Taoiseach….watch this space.
Why is Bertie Aherne speaking like he represents us? He’s a disgrace with no shame.
@Bobby Phelan: Don’t forget the other two, FG/L are involved too and they should join forces to form one party. FF/FG/L/SF, are no different to each other and crave power at any price!
Why won’t he go away ….
@Willy Malone: Please just leave Bertie ‘a-loan’
Eh, de-de-de-de, cos he spent the 26k he got a loan of…
@Willy Malone:He makes some good points. Except about the border. It’s not a nightmare for us, it’s a nightmare for the Northern Irish and the British.
Cause he’s deluded, like the rest of them. Take away the lesser educated, more gullible pensioner voters and they’ve got nothing. Only problems is they’re always first in the queue at the polling station, unwittingly effing the whole system up for the rest of of us.
The pensioners still think the local teacher, publican, journalist, social worker, whatever, will do them a favour when they get elected, and they just might do that. Unfortunately when such people get elected, they are totally unqualified for what’s required in them making decisions over multi million and multi billion euro state business and legislation. Therefore through their gross incompetence, they provide horrendously poor management, losing the state billions. They need to recoup the moneys lost some way and the only way they know how to raise money is through taxes. It was the way in the property bubble, they almost bankrupt the country, same now with Coveney and rent, taxing the landlord out of the market through charges and rent. The politicians need to make the money back so they raise taxes so local paddy who asked for the favour in the first place gets screwed while these totally incompetent politicians expect to be first in the queue for the pay rise. Totally effed up system!
So you think pensioners are lesser educated and gullible. That’s a fairly stupid statement.
Yes. I think it’s a major factor in our dysfunctional society. Nothing stupid about it, it’s fact. A lot of older prople are opposed to change and therefore progress. National politics needs radical reform because its obvious the current bunch can’t do the job and we need to change the way they are elected so we get competent politicians in the required jobs, making the proper decisions.
@Willy Hes only king when in his canary yellow suit…calm down and do not feed the trolls
@Mike Holmes:  I be!irevef on the journal until this article.. Shall be boycotting from now on ..??laterz…?its been a slice!
Maybe if the rest of us got off our effing butts put down our can long enough to go out and vote there wouldn’t be a problem as you see it.
By the way being better educated is no guarantee of having more common sense.
He’s like a bad smell Willie…best to ignore the tosser
@Adrian:Being opposed to change does not necessarily mean being opposed to progress. Would you describe every “change” over the last 10 or 20 years as “progress”?
Is he still getting his 3000 or so a week pension.
Dear Bertie,I’m sure there are some people around Drumcondra who may still think that you’re the bee’s lower femural joint… but it’s an echo chamber and the rest of the country is wise to you and doesn’t share that sentiment.By putting in your oar like this it could potentially get the back up of people who would love to see you proved wrong.Sometimes people like yourself really should stay out of it – Just like Tony Blair should in the UK.Yours sincerely,
Unfortunately Tony I don’t think the Irish electorate have learned their lesson, and never will. I fully expect the Bertie to be a TD after the next election. Heart breaking.
@Tony Canning:So true, do the hugely unpopular politicians of yesteryear not realise that any cause they attach themselves to is likely damaged by association? Perhaps it is due to the fact that once they are out of office they do not benefit from the constant inspection by their spin doctors of everything they say and do! Best they keep quiet.
It would suit him better to explain why he signed off on that deal with his beloved catholic church
D-D-D Dats mad I won it on a horse
@Keiko: Ha ha.. And he looks like a f£cking altar boy.
No we will just go down with it
God I hate that man so much
@Kenneth Fitzgerald:  Ireland should be saying to the EU that a good deal for Britain is a good deal for Ireland. This is economics 101. Enda is weak in the EU and that means Ireland is weak in brexit negotiations. Germany does not have our backs. Time to leave.
I hope that he reads the comments on any journal article that even mentions his name… he has to know, I doubt he cares tho, how hated and despised he is, has there ever been a more hated x leader of Ireland…
@Kenneth Fitzgerald: Serious question…. My impression of those who would be pro-leaving the EU is that they are both pro-leave and that the EU project is doomed to failure anyway.If that’s the case then why do some seem so insistent to push for an Irish leave referendum? And, if that’s the case it would be pretty reasonable to imagine that the majority of governments would at the very least revert to a common economic area?Genuinely interested in opinions on this….
@Paul Doyle: haughey?
@Burke John:Good man John. Can always count on you for a bit of pro-British propoganda.
Edna will pass his out in the history books. Crooks the lot of them
Charles Haughey…. close alright but in terms or sleveness, deviousness and out n out traitorness Charlie was only a baby to that filthbag… plus he gave the old folk the bus pass (werent we easily pleased back then)
@Tony Canning: I think a lot of people, myself included, feel that the EU project is a failure, financially and socially, but this doesn’t make them anti European. I’d rather see a managed return to the EEC free trading project rather than persevering with the current political federalisation that has been of limited benefit to just a few.
@Revolting Peasant: I believe it will be replaced by a looser arrangement.   The Euro did block the ability of government to print money and that ended strikes.    I liked that part, pity the commies/greenies got control.  Up here in Monaghan, the pylons are blamed on the EU, they will never vote for the  EU again.
Looks like he is still claiming for his makeup, state of him.
Why do they just ask the people of Ireland to see if he is right or not
@Paul Maguire:They might be dumb but they’re not that dumb.
Bertie our Captain who steered us up onto the Rocks, What does he want ? Why is he still giving asides from the wings of the stage we hoped he had left for good.
Government spouting we the public don’t want a general election,Bertie spouting we the public don’t want to leave the eu,the government and the eu must be sh!tting what’s coming down the track with elections soon
Every time his face pops up its another valid reason to re/open spike island
@iMoan Brutal: Stick his head on a spike, on the railings outside the dail and let the others see our anger.
Fukken hardup clapped out eejet!
Crawl back under a rock you horrible man
Cmon Conor. He has a presidential campaign to get going. As if we were “mad enough” to vote 4 him
From the man who created all the hardship in Ireland no health service homelessness taxed to the hilt just about living working until you die no big pension for me lol
OK, we get it Bertie. People who criticise the EU should just commit suicide.
Would you just get off the stage do you actually believe that anybody cares what you say
No just mad enough to vote for Fianna fail again
Nobody interested in what that deluded fool has to say !!! Should be in mountjoy !!
Somebody should lock him back in that bloody cupboard.
Somebody should lock him in a cell more like
easy, here’s one…. we both pull out and leave mainland on its own, we don’t need them, take back our resources and kick them all out. we can trade with each other and be the envy of the rest because we have far more to offer than them. disgraceful our fishing is imported to the shelves here. I’m sure the germans have the scientists to create irish beef in their labs. leave them at it.
How does this thief get air time.
The man is rotten to the core. Get lost
Kenny calls for clarity from the UK. Has no one told him the UK has already said it’s leaving the single market and the customs union.
Ahern ah spare us that idiot is he angling for some position for the brexit?
@Kerry Blake: and to think there are still people who would vote for this corrupt gangster  if he went for the dail again
Why does this sham get so much media attention? He’s a criminal, he should be in prison, not pretending he knows how Irish are thinking. S(umbag!
What a moronic dinosaur. We had territorial rights to a massive chunk of EU fishing grounds till crooked politicians like him signed them away, the same way Ray McSharry gave away our natural resources, our oil and gas. We could fend for ourselves if it weren’t for the Berties of this world. PS Bertie, SHUT THE HELL UP.
Oh I don’t know. How many times did we elect Bertie?
Elelected Enda twice made enough to do anything judging by that
Although I don’t like phrasing it this way, we need our parents and grandparents (if yours are still alive) generations to die before we can get away from civil war politics and religion.
Bertie..he’s like that quote about Lance Armstrong … The cancer has been in remission for a few years, now the cancer is back
Saw.Let’s play a game.
I came here just to say that I don’t give a toss about anything Bertie has to say.
If it meant his pension was taken off him I’d be all for leaving the EU (or planet earth).  Useless self serving man.
I just simply disagree.If you look at the last Irish general election – what was the biggest electoral scoring point/issue? Parish pump politics.The biggest issues facing us as a nations are:1. Immigration – are we happy to be a country who will over the next 10 years have a net migration influx2. Can our public services withstand this influx3. Should we withstand this influx will the EU nations who have a net emigration status help us subsidise the future healthcare/social provisions for their citizens4. Are we willing to hand over our right as a republic to make our own laws and treaties.I worked in the U.K. Over the last 10 years and called both brexit and trump whilst all my friends were looking at me as I was a loonatic.These are serious issues/questions to be answered. We need to decide which direction we wish to go.When Britain were in the EU I believed it would be financial suicide for us to leave. Now I no longer believe so.
What a load of crap. We don’t have have net migration
Really ?http://www.cso.ie/en/releasesandpublications/er/pme/populationandmigrationestimatesapril2016/But now don’t let facts get in the way of your AAA or so called “solidarity” alliance agenda.I’m not saying it’s good or bad. Just stating it’s fact.
Stick to entertaining your lady friends in thr Darndale Hilton and leave us alone Bertie !
The quicker we go it alone the better
what about Agri exports? What about n.i. border controls?
Sure. Let’s have a proper discussion – but not in an article about dis eejit.
We wouldn’t be allowed leave just make us keep voting until they get the answer they want
We’re mad enough to have a Taoiseach with no bank account so no Bertie, we are mad enough to leave the EU.
That’s what he hopes. Because an Ireland that stands on it own will demand more tax from the rich and famous and corrupt politicians. Ireland will leave Europe because once Britain slams the door shut then where do you think the immigrants are going to head too. Ireland always follows Britain it just takes a little more time. So Bertie stop worrying for now your mattress money is safe
Safe option, listen to what a government minister (or toss pot in this case) tells us what is good or bad for us and do the complete opposite
Is it me or is he turning into Barry Humphries (Dame Edna)?
FU Bertie. I don’t know why the media keep giving you, a complete kûnt, so much coverage.
Anyone who suggests that we leave the EU should ‘go hang themselves’.
Unfortunately we were feckin mad enough to vote for him!
The question is not what a fool Ahern might be. The question is whether an external EU border is best avoided by following the UK out of the EU, or by unifying Ireland.
How shallow are we?? When the economy was booming we lauded him.I never voted for the man or his party – but he was treated as a “world” leader at one stage.We are wonderful at being knowledgeable after the event.
But we’re mad enough to keep voting these incompetent FF and FG clowns back into gov. Britain will do whatever is best for Britain and our own useless politicians can’t be blaming brexit for their own shortcomings and horrendously bad management of Ireland.
I refuse to even read the article Why the fk is he allowed to speak?
Really Journal, giving this man airtime ???
The AAA and SF lads are now resolutely anti-EU and pro-British. Hilarious.I think it tells the rest of us where we should stand on this issue however. Good rule of thumb, if AAA and their SF brethren think it’s a good thing, we can be sure the interests of the country are served differently.
I would consider myself centre right but am still cautious if the eu.Whilst they provided access to a single market that was invaluable.The now leaving of the UK throws the whole idea of tariffs into disrepute.No one can argue that the eu is certainly German-centric. Where it not we would have increased our interest rates in Ireland to help at least lessen the effect cheap credit had on our “boom”.The eu has to recognise its flaws and allow countries to maintain their sovereignty. The euro itself was a bad idea monetarily.
”The whole border issue is a nightmare for us”. says Bertie .Irish people living in the 6 counties have been saying that for about 96 years now , and they weren’t talking economics.
Any other Country he would be in Jail here they just give them a big pension.
Why is he reappearing all of a sudden. Shouldn’t be given the air time. Corrupt fcuker!!
Bertie, shut the F..up, nobody is interested in your rantings snymore, enjoy you ill gotton pensionyou chancer.
You have no idea how much I blame this parasitic corrupt individual for the problems in Ireland today.
The Teflon Don ruined the country so should be treated with utter contempt
But were mad enough to leave the largest economy of the early 20th century and hand it over to deviant clergy?
Well dammit this just makes me want to leave now.
EirXIT is the only game in town but we need real leaders to organise that and  not grubby tallentless little corrupt chancers who got us into this mess. First England, then and still the church as well as Europe I would now love Ireland to have its independence for the first time since 1169.
He’s the last face of a gangster I want to see on these pages! Please never again!
Ireland was “Mad Enough”to elect him as taoiseach 3 times.
Shame on you Orla Ryan !
Inflated house prices, inflated rents, spiralling public service salaries, mismanagement of the HSE, mis-located infrastructure projects, banks unchecked, tribunals and quangos.Bertie and FF led the way, but Kenny and FG are perfecting it.
We’re f’ing stone mad…
Who gives a fuk what Bertie has to say ? You took your eye off the ball and fukked this country. Go away !!
Ahhhh it’s my old friend St Bartholomew the corrupt diddering his spurious wisdom from atop Mt Olympus, he should really apply for the toe sucker position in Trumps administration, he’d fit right in
Go away Bertie. Who wants to listen to this spoofer? And who is trying to give him credibility by wheeling out his opinion every so often? Lock him back in his cupboard.  His ilk are only afraid that their snouts might get a bit dry in the trough if we ever distanced ourselves from the EU.
Why the hell don’t you bugger off back into your leprechaun closet and let the non embarrassing adults sort out the problems.
Definitely don’t have the guts to put it to the Irish citizens and see what happens.
I think we’re ‘mad’ enough to vote for him again; we’re a nation of compulsive gamblers.Best of 3 Bertie, 5 of 7, coin flip?Seriously, keep up the meetings…
This is the same clown who called those who foresaw the overheating economy and forewarned of the crash “a bunch of moaners”. Why should anyone pay any heed to what he has to say?
There is a message in Bertie’s statement didn’t get a big bank balance by being stupid
@Harry Foley: Did he ever get a bank account in the end?
Nope Harry he got it from being a crook
Considering it looks like  the people are willing to hand power back to the most corrupt party namely FF
It was mad enough to put his populist government in power.
Why would anyone listen to this fool again.
Was mad enough to not oppose this tosser running the place so if indeed it is ‘mad’ it’s clearly possible
Can somebody, please clarify what Ahern done so wrong? Why is he such a hated figure on the comment section of the Journal?
@RiainOg: Let the economy do an icarus based on mortage/property economics, bailed before the shit hit the fan because he was found to have had dodgy sources of extra income that he failed to properly explain.
Hey Dirty B, here’s an idea … f*ck off
Considering it looks like  the people are willing to hand power back to the most corrupt party namely FF
Bertie  should just f&$k off and burn in hell with all his crony pals!
why is this gob shit still talking
And I hope Trump brings up Tuam, Grace and McCabe. Fairs fair
Kenny is a dumb dumb. He should keep his mouth shut as any thing he does or say only makes things worse for us in The long run
@Fear Uisce:” I  t-t-tink de new travel ban is a g-g-great idea, your highness ”   – Says Edna, head bowed, on his knees…
The slither will be wearing the bowl of shamrock if he grows the balls to question Trumps policies.
Ha! Enda will raise the travel ban… and Trump will raise his middle finger.
@Fear Uisce: Scrooge Trump was better than his word.  He did it all, and infinitely more; and to Tiny Enda, who did not die, he was a second father.  He became as good a friend, as good a master, and as good a man, as the good old city knew, or any other good old city, town, or borough, in the good old Racist world.
It’s a pity he didn’t grow a pair when dealing with Merkel and her cronies.
Well – it was us, the electorate, who voted in (and continue to) the inept/corrupt politicians who precipitated our need to seek the EU help!
Beach master..he still hasn’t grown a pair. An official will mention it in passing g to another official and that’ll be it. This is Enda we’re talking about and poor old Enda doesn’t do controversial
Hey stop that Frank we need perpetrators to villify, comments section would have to close if people took responsibility for their voting history (or lack thereof)
That’s why I propose any politician elected to government who reneges on pre-election promises should be publicly flogged.
Just as well your views are totally irrelevant.
@Beachmaster: Never know what the CIA has on all of them lol.
What business is it of his or ours what another countries policy is. I’d rather he concentrate on issues at home or even better still , just feck off back to mayo and become a recluse..
@Fionn Bohane:  Enda like interferences in other countries business,  he is just afraid to sort out Ireland’s issues.  There are no issues I am aware with travel bans involving Ireland but Kenny wants to fight everyone elses battles.
It’s of no interest to the Irish people to discuss a travel ban. Try and get clarity about three potential for either an amnesty or deportation agreement for Irish illegals.
@Fionn Bohane: The foreign policy of big powerful countries can have a large if indirect impact on other countries in the world. That could make it our business. Also he might be worried about the harm it could cause to fellow humans, you know the sorta thing. That sort of stuff makes Americas business other peoples business too. We’re all connected, like it or not.
@Mark Gearey: We’ve had 16 years of standing by and even aiding them while they carried out the worst actions in the history of foreign policy – and that’s saying something.
Half his administration plays the Irish card.Seems fair for the leader of the Irish government to balance that
Will he bring it up before or after he bends over?
@Dj: During.
Maybe trump and pence will reciprocate with MC cabe.  Mother and baby homes , grace ..
Isn’t enda being bit hypocritical here.The Taoiseach said Ireland’s corporate tax rate is a matter for the Irish government, just as the US rate is a matter for their own administration.Surely that applies to immigration and borders as well…
No – borders are usually shared between two countries, who both have a say.
@Fank Pulman: Then let Canada and Mexico bring it up.   The Atlantic Ocean is one big arsed border!!!
@Fank Pulman… But it’s still the American administration and not anything to do with  Ireland? Right , so the point still stands.. enda is being hypocritical in bringing up what the American administration dies in relation to it’s borders and immigration … Unless he works for the Mexicans and Canadians. Really none of his business….
Does
Probably none of his business, depending on what he says. He may raise the subject of people from the banned countries who hold Irish passports, for instance.
Face-palm
“The Taoiseach said Ireland’s corporate tax rate is a matter for the Irish government, just as the US rate is a matter for their own administration”.Likewise Ireland’s border and immigration controls are a matter for the Irish government, just as the US border and immigration control is a matter for their own administration”. Funny how people don’t get that.
I can just see him walking out of the Oval Office wearing the bowl of shamrocks on his head.
@George Vladisavljevic: I can see him walking funny tbh!!!!
More likely it’ll be Trump’s official green Paddy’s Day cap featuring a four-leaved clover.http://www.rte.ie/entertainment/2017/0307/857872-make/
If he ..Fecks it up with Trump..our unemployment numbers could rise with Irish illegal been sent home
Bar it is I support your right to raise policies on behalf of the country you were elected to lead, Kenny should stoptar an béal
Hahahaha no he won’t, :-)
My ass he will be told to sit in the corner like a good boy and please god when he gets back he will stand down muppet
And get another pat on the head
Pointless
I could imagine what the ‘DON’ would tell him
When will Kenny and his disreputable cabinet understand that NOBODY believes a word they say.We haven’t forgotten all the promises he made in his election flyers. He has lost all credibility and thanks to social media you can see how many are disgusted with FG. Welcome to Ireland folks where corruption is rife, nobody resigns and senior police officers and judges are political yes men.
Probably never Gus seeing as the electorate vote them back in, decade after decade.Not one of them gives a f**k what anyone thinks.
Just two words sum up my feelings of the article headline – ‘yea right’
Its none of our business.
Enda: so ye have a travel ban I hear.Trump: yesEnda: ahh sure that’s grand.
Two of the most incompetent idiots on the planet meeting up. I’d say Trump is having sleepless nights worrying about how Kenny will reprimand him
Grow a pair Enda,
The Donald will stuff that bowl of shamrock up Kenny’s aras.
Gwan Enda you tell him for us!!
@John O Neill: Please Sir can I have some more… More!
He has said a lot of things this man an never followed through , I would expect him to kiss ass , an be yes sir , no sir 3 bags full sir,
So transport is a doddle and government is a joke yet Shane Ross draws his considerable salary so Enda can cling to power.
Trump must be terrified of Enda….not
Enda the poisonous little muppet will be afraid to open his mouth. Trump knows we are sending him a marked man, out of a job not long after his return. It’s a token gesture by a broken jester.
He will in his arse. Pics or it didn’t happen comes to mind.
Hopefully Trump won’t let Inda in….
Before he goes he’ll say he will..when he returns he’ll say he did..don’t believe anything he says..hope he’s properly coached in how to shake hands and where to sit this time….PS Enda..the bowl has a top and a bottom. ..try not to f@#% it up..
Enda: Would you not stop the ould travel ban? Trump: No. Enda: Grand so. Enda to the media: I spoke at length with the President about the travel ban.
Would say Trump is shitting himself
Enda addresses those stuck in airport:“You are not responsible for this crisis.”Enda addresses Trump:“People simply went mad.”
Like fup he will. No nutz Kenny will smile, shake hands and keep his dumb mouth shut.
Shut your hole kenny
Trump vindicated by mayoral election today in Rutland, Vermont, where a pro Syrian immigration mayor lost race for re-election.http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4294682/Mayor-believes-Syrian-refugee-plan-cost-election.html?ito=social-twitter_dailymailus
Me and some other people too perhaps, think that Trumps ban could make the world a less safe place. That makes it everybody’s business. I think Enda should talk about his concerns with the ban if possible. Or just not visit Trump at all. Intel aren’t gonna pull out of Ireland cos Trump didn’t get his shamrock.
@Mark Gearey: He is not president of the world. He is president of the US as he made clear in his inauguration and Congressional speeches.
Trump: Oh hey nice to meet you Edna! Come on! Let’s go grab a coffee and a pussy!
But will ask Trumps permission first to ask about it lol.
Go on Enda. Put Trump in his place. You’re the man!
Paddy Power odds on what distance the Donald will kick him down the White House lawn.He won’t even be allowed speak to Mr Trump before being shown the door as he is a non entity.
I bet he won’t have the intelligence to point out the hundreds of thousands of Americans allowed to lie in Ireland.    This should be reciprocated.
@The Crant: That should be Live in Ireland,  there appears to be no facility for edit this poorly run r site.
Trump has already dined with the head of the Provos so had plenty of opportunity to discuss mass murder
@Stephen Kearon: Try to concentrate on the topic rather than let your bigotry take over your train of thought.
None of our business
That attitude is dangerous.
How?
@Keiko: Read a history book (or have someone read it to you).
I wonder is the American journal or equivalent doing a poll on should Trump ask Kenny about the babies found in his own constituency
@Funfair: Kenny has to keep in mind there are hundreds of thousands of Irish working for Irish companies and hundreds of thousands of Irish in USA. They come first.
Enda Kenny should be sacked over the McCabe scandal.
Kenny should be asked about his response to the discovery of the Tuam babies just as Trump should be asked about his travel ban policy. The kindest thing our neighbour can do is point when we are being arse_holes
Hi Liam.. Rise and shine in Riyadh, shouldn’t you be tending to your harem of Goats and Camels
Andrea exactly why he should keep his mouth shut and concentrate on getting what’s best for the country not bring up contentious stuff that has nothing to do with us
Why, any comment that comes out of his mouth would be as irrelevant as he is. Whats Trump going to do if he does say something…pat him on the head? HE SHOULDN’T BE GOING.
@Funfair:“First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Socialist.Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Trade Unionist.Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Jew.Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me.” Martin Niemöller
Mick nobody is coming that’s the point all they doing is putting a ban on countries that can’t vet people to the standards set out end of nothing to see move on get the shamrock and the guiness out
@Funfair. It’s “none of our business” until it effects us. Call it what it is, It’s racial profiling.
I’d love if Trump did, we need to be held accoutable just as much as Trump does
Funfair, exactly, while in Rome…Mr Trump is the elected President of another state and Mr Kenny as elected leader of our state has been invited to share an important date in our shared traditions, not get involved in America’s politics.
@OpenBorder: “Read a history book” come off it! We’re a long way off the appeasement of the Churchill administration. It’s that type of sensationalism that has the right wing so up in arms. As much as i disagree with what he’s doing he’s the elected president of a countryn, with a mandate to restrict immigration. It’s not like he’s masterminded the invasion of a country and we’re turning a blind eye!
@rick and morto:Meddling in other countries business is not recommended unless you have something to back it up,especially when its the US who we rely so much on for jobs and investment,which is of critical importance for us,  maybe you would like to tell us just what meddling in their affairs would achieve,
@rick and morto:Depends why, where, when & who you are concerned about!
First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Socialist.Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Trade Unionist.Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Jew.Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me.
Apologies Mick Kenny didn’t notice you had already posted this German poem
No problem, great mind think alike
http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-39182653“Three men from Albania who have been charged with firearms offences did not realise they were in Northern Ireland, a court has been told. A gun was found in a car after it was stopped by police on the Dublin Road in Enniskillen on Friday, the court also heard. Lorenc Dashi, 34, from Dublin Road, Cavan, Mariglen Hoxha, 21, and Arlind Rrapaj, 22, of no fixed abode in Dublin are each charged with having a firearm in suspicious circumstances and possession of an offensive weapon. Mr Dashi is also accused of obstructing a police officer, driving without a licence and without insurance. A detective constable told Enniskillen Magistrates’ Court that the gun was found hidden underneath a false floor behind the passenger seat. The court was told that two of the men had arrived in Dublin three weeks ago and claimed refugee status. They had been given temporary leave to remain while their case was considered, but were supposed to remain in the Republic of Ireland. A solicitor said the pair did not realise they were in Northern Ireland. The two men did not speak English and one of the defendants had to translate the court proceedings as no Albanian interpreter was available.” Let’s worry about our own borders first perhaps.
@Beachmaster: Wrong story brah.
@openboarders,wrong story cause it doesn’t suit your agenda.
No, he should keep his face shut. Who the Americans choose to let into their country is none of our business.
He is going to ask that America makes Irish illegals legal, so he can’t not say anything about this act.Plus, he has a moral obligation to speak up.
@Alan Brogan: Moral onligation alloted to him by who?
@Alan Brogan:He should keep his face shut about Irish illegals too.What obligation has Kenny got to speak on behalf of a bunch of Somalis and Sudanese? Nonsense.
@James Guinan: His conscience.
Enda Kenny, conscience, ha ha ha Best joke I’ve heard all day
Kenny can say f.a about anyone’s morals after his property tax u-turn on family homes,the sleeveen shouldn’t even be in a position to ask trump about his policies.
@Naberius: America belongs to the native Indian tribes who cared for and revered the land for centuries. European immigrants/invaders then arrived with their guns and poxy diseases.
@Jamie McCormack:Belonged.
Get over it
Why would he ask to allow irish illegals stay? Some would not be welcome here.
I agree. None of our business. If Kenny arrives back and we lose investment because he gave one to trump, think of the shouting of no jobs and the pensioners taking a hit as social welfare drops.
@Naberius: Build your wall.
@Jamie McCormack:I’m not planning to build a wall!
@Naberius: Oh but you are. A barrier has many forms.
@Jamie McCormack:Oooh, mysterious! What kind of wall/barrier do you think I’m planning to build?
@Naberius: Keep out the non Americans? Love to hear you expand on that.
@Jamie McCormack:My barrier to keep non-Americans out of what, buddy?
@Naberius: Your non-existent US of A pal.
@Jamie McCormack:Oh, difficult question because it’s not mine and it does exist!
@Naberius: How united? Please indulge us.
@Jamie McCormack:Entirely united as far as I can see!
Why not cut social welfare back to 1950s Ireland for a month in preparation for the job losses after Enda tangoes the orange native. Dove tail nicely into other debates under way
Aye Naberius the States are a paragon of unity.
@Jamie McCormack:I haven’t noticed any of the states saying they want to secede so I guess they’re united enough!
Racial tensions on the boil, massive inequality between rich and poor, likes of Texas talking about seceding, and I don’t see a huge amount of coming together. Unless you count the gathering of the wannabe Nazis. Amerikkka is full of them.
California too.
Including the millions of undocumented Irish?
@Jamie McCormack:Meh, it’s always been like that. Texas and California won’t do shit.Well, no, it’s not full of Nazis. There are a few neo Nazi types but they don’t do a whole lot.It’s not really fair to call it Amerikkka, either. If it’s being run by the Klan then the Klanners are doing it wrong what with having a black president and all. Well, black-ish.
@Geraldine O’Brien:If you’re talking to me there aren’t millions of undocumented Irish. The rules apply to Irish people in the United States, too.
@Naberius: The Klan are more powerful than you may think. America is a country built on racism and the law of the gun.
@Jamie McCormack:In what way are they more powerful than I think?
@Naberius, NRA the most influential lobby group?
@Jamie McCormack:That’s nice but what about the KKK?
@Naberius: The crossover is clear man. You’re either being sarcastic or you genuinely haven’t a notion. I reckon it’s the former.
@Jamie McCormack:There are millions of people in the NRA. There are maybe five thousand members of the KKK at best.
Grand Wizard, Orange Order, Klan. Political relics in our new world. A name-change means jack.
@Jamie McCormack:Yeah, that’s fine, the Orange Order and the KKK are both filthy organizations but what does any of this have to do with a travel ban on people from those awful countries?
A monster has been created, Our job is to defeat it. We are on a mission.
Ridiculous poll. It’s none of his business.
On this special day, shouldn’t he mention that thousands upon thousands of our people, many of whom have the U.S. their home, and a better place for it, are at risk of being rounded up and deported. He’ll probably get a pat on the head.
If they’re illegal they should be deported. We need a politician with the balls to say that.
Trump’s family were illegal.
No, it would not be in the best interests of our own 50,000 undocumented, these are the only people our Taoiseach should concern himself with…..
@Kate Flaherty: 50,000 illegals, not undocumented.
Kate the are illegal not undocumented ok
@Noel, I stand corrected, either way, undocumented, illegal, it is in their best interests for Enda to be as diplomatic as he can possibly be…..
@Kate Flaherty :Irish people and the Polish people are relatively safe from being deported,something or other to do with their skin colour ..LOL
Yes Kate use illegal when talking to Trump about them ok
Who are these people calling for him to say something.
@Paul:Liberals….Hilary/Democrat supporters…Guardian readers.
@Paul: People with balls who aren’t cowards.
Open borders advocates.
https://www.youtube.com/shared?ci=GVp1_yq8ZJAThis TD.
@Beachmaster:There’s some loopers in Dail Eireann all the same.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Ronan Mullen is in the Seanad, not Dáil Éireann.
The only public comment that imbecile should be making is announcing his immediate retirement.
The USA is a foreign sovereign state!! Its THEIR business how they rule their country, not ours!!Less of this anti-Trump Bulls#@t!! its getting tiring now.
No, he’ll only make himself, his party and the Irish people look foolish.Remember, Enda Kenny and Fine Gael are the party who are taking the EU to court in an attempt to stop a large multinational paying 13 billion euros into the state coffers at a time when the social infrastructure of our country is in tatters due to a succession of austerity budgets imposed by the same EU hierarchy.Occupying the high moral ground is not an option for Enda or his party.
Honestly does anyone really think Trump or anyone else will listen to anything a spent force such as Enda has to say.
Enda is just delivering a bowl of shamrocks, he’s not going to say a damn thing. I just hope he wears a nice shade of green lipstick for all the arse kissing he’s going to do.
Enda likes to get a pat on the head from anybody.I  Don’t see Kenny open his mouth as he’s never stood up for Ireland during the bailout with his boss Merkel.
@Al S Macthomais: well said. some of the EU defenders would wanna be a bit more docile n run along now as they continue to be fleeced with foreign debt as you (correctly) note.
Why? Did he tell the EU where t go or fight our corner despite getting elected on the pretence?No.So why ask such a stupid, naive question in a poll?
He should not ! But he probably put his big foot in it again ok
@Noel, Ok!…..
Maybe President Trump should put a travel ban on Catholic from Ireland in light of recent horrific revelations.
We are a neutral country, it’s not our place.
Neutered yes neutral no.
The americans will not understand what or anything Kenny might mention  after all many of them still think we all live in tiny thatched cottages drinking Guinness eating bacon and cabbage
Kenny should mind his own business and stuff his bowl of weed that you can’t even smoke where the sun probably shines quite frequently.
No, because he can’t open that hole in his face without causing an embarrassment to the people of this Country
Ha ha with that weasel you would be lucky for him not to give away the rest of the country never mind speak out about a pressing issue
No because personal politics don’t work
Kenny better just shut the feck up for everyone’s sake. Leftist morons want him to make some sort of ridiculous statement but silence would appear to be the best reaction.
He’d be terrified to open his mouth. Just stand there with a stupid grin and a bowl of shamrocks
He should also condemn the 16 nations that refuse entry to people with Israeli passports….
@Ryan McGrath:Haha.
Even if he should he wouldn’t do it because he is spinless
There should be an I don’t care button
Enda kenny should be dumped over the Atlantic..
The journal shouldn’t even be posing such a ridciulous question. Kenny has more than enough issues he needs to deal with on this small island,to comment on global ones would be preposterous. It also makes me sick to see some Irish people protesting on the streets about trump, when we have homeless problems, high taxes, drugs issues, poor public transport and turn a blind eye to billion euro companies such as Apple, get a grip people!!!
@Jeremiah Ml: best comment on here. As if Trump would care what he thinks any way. We need trump and America on our side. Its easy for the left wing irish to protest who are we to judge. Wheres all the left wing crowd protesting about the mass graves up in Tuam. No where to be seen its esy for people to take the moral highground but there opinions would change if a plane was flown into Dublin city centre or a mass shooting in a public place.
@Jeremiah Ml: Well said man!
Same guys on here commenting all day every day. Go outside and meet real people. Theres more to life than The Journal.
@Paul Whyte: Real people, like you? No thanks. I’m going to stick around right here!
Almost all of the countries listed are in a state of civil war where ISIS are active.
Enda should explain that it is all the fault of the Irish people, our collective responsibility and no one else’s fault. We the Irish people are to blame.
Enda shouldn’t even be going there.
Bring it up in private perhaps, but certainly not on this special occasion. Our relationship with the US is more than these two men.
We still don’t get it we are a small Country that’s just full of gossip Trump doesn’t care what we think .
Wow. Pretty shocking that people are too worried about themselves to try to stand up for unfortunates who are bullied and bombed out by either their own government or by break away militia
I’m alright Jack.
He shouldn’t be meeting with Dump
He should
No he shouldnt, its an internal US issue and the focus should NOT be taken off  the reason for our leaders visit. Positive promotion of Ireland, increased trade and tourism. He can easily have a private talk with trump and raise the issue of the undocumented Irish on the sidelines. then make a statement that they discussed the undocumented irish and that assurances were given. That what most educated mature leaders would do, not this libtard snowflake knee-jerk allergic reaction to finally reaslising that in fact, trump has been elected, he wants to impose travel bans and there’s nothing you or I can do about it. I dont like trump, but well… welcome to reality. deal with it.
He shouldn’t go in the first place.
He should stay at home and look after the mess of a country he proclaims to serve. That dail should be burnt to the ground. Useless self serving shower of shits.
I wonder how Irish people would feel if our govt said that they were going to do this –Basically this is the gist of it…Citizens from the following six countries will, from March 16, be prevented from entering the United States for a period of 90 days, regardless of their religion, unless they have previously been granted a visa.SyriaSudanLibyaSomaliaYemenIranit suspends the US refugee programme for a period of 120 days, after this 120 days, the US will not accept more than 50,000 refugees in a year, down from the 110,000 cap set by the Obama administration.
No, anyway do the idiots that voted yes want to bring the people from the banned countries over here,  I very much doubt it.
Stupid poll
No. Stop pandering to corporate globalism.
“None of our business” great mentality to have. Quite similar to ” first they came for the Jews”. Right wing cu**nt
The Jews had lived in Germany for thousands of years. Not comparable
Yes if the subject is raised by President Trump
Enda should go it’s a opportunity to engage Trump and for him to hear outside his group. Enda should wear a breitbart news name tag and Trump will belive everything he says
No
Yes Sir, Mr Trump Sir
An infant mortality rate 10 times the societal mortality rate? These were death factories not care homes and all those educated people in power, who were aware of those stats must have knew full well what was happening but chose not to act! They are all culpable! The Priests, the TDs, the Nuns, Bishops, Drs, Pathologists, School teachers and Councillors!
@Jarlath Murphy: baby farms, like puppy farms have a high mortality rate for the unsold and unsaleable product.
Tony , do you not think that it’s a bit hurtful for the families that might be affected by this by calling it baby farms all the time ?
What planet is Kenny living on? Women had their babies taken off them by the state and the Church. They had little say in the matter. The religious orders in this country are on par with European fascists when it comes to how they controlled our society. They killed babies and abused children and got away with it. Now Enda is trying to say that the people were complicit in these crimes. Resign now you ignorant prikc.
@Suzie Sunshine: the victims are dead or sold or beyond caring about platitudes.
@Suzie Sunshine: and I should know.
Tony Daly .. I only watched an interview the other day from a woman who’s two brothers died in that place . Throwing words like that around can be hurtful to those affected . . I
Tony .. if you have been personally affected by this , then I am sorry to hear that ..
@Suzie Sunshine: nothing affects me, nothing at all.
@Suzie Sunshine: baby farm or puppy farm. I think that puppy farms are better managed and humane but baby farms were highly profitable.
I think people should stop political point scoring.  Tony you are particularly vocal and biz it off as if only we had abortion. We don’t know. A lot of families don’t know the background to pregnancies. Yes the lack of social welfare support and the horrors of the homes was unacceptable. Let families who wish to speak out do so. Let others come to terms with their circumstances. There will be horrors to be unearthed here.Let it be done so with dignity and get anyone possibly held accountable to be tried.
@lavbeer: it is not political point scoring to identify the Roman Catholic Church as the primary culprit, the perpetrator, of these horrific actions.Of course those who were incarcerated suffered from birth poverty and the religious stigma of illegitimacy, the so called chikdren of sin.We cannot allo ourselves to be blind to the factuality reality that these baby farms were run by  Roman Catholic and religious orders, such as Bon Secours.
Tony totally agree with you on that. . It is just your choice of those words .
@Suzie Sunshine: I have no feelings or sensitivity.
Tony there is going to be a percentage of mothers whose daddies were the daddy of you get my drift. Or uncle Tony or cousin George. Families that sentenced their kids to death knowingly because there was no hotel and payments available. Now I am not making any allegations here. It’s much more complicated than your guilt ridden view of the world
Suzie Sunshine I emigrated to USA in 80s you know haugheys Irish solution to an Irish problem, send them away, having lived in eight states I have met a handful of people that only found out they were ‘adopted’ out of Ireland after their ‘adoptive’ parents died, most had no idea how they ended up in USA when some began researching the topic they were met with a wall of silence by both the church and the state bodies.  They were treated like cattle by the church sold to the highest bidder, ok let’s say highest donor in church parlance, these ‘homes’ were nothing more than glorified workhouses and yes baby farms for childless American catholics.  This wasn’t 1870s but 1970s, when I was a teenager, how old were you when these atrocities were taking place?I remember Trócaire etc running campaigns for the poor starving bi-africans, the hypocrisy of it all when they committing crimes against their own people in Ireland and this was in the same time frame as they were killing by inaction Irish babies.  These people, the so called religious, are nothing but criminals and should be brought to justice NOW!Stop trying to minimize what it was that they did, they were child traffickers and as we discovered in the 80s through to today rapists, child abusers, womanizers, to hell with the vow of chastity, gamblers, thieves, paedophiles, liars and con men and women.
Interesting. Did the handful of people give a view as to how happy their lives were? Suppose they had nothing to compare against at home. Did they know who their parents were?And of course he is your president!!!
You need to get a life!!!!
@lavbeer: you truly plumb the depths of human unpleasantness.
But who put them in the ground enda and why ???
No Mr. Kenny you craven cur. “We” the majority played no part in the systematic torture and rape of the children of the poor. In the same way we bear no responsibility now for families thrown on to the streets to enrich vulture funds or children with scoliosis twisted spines forced to wait in agony so that bondholders suffer not the slightest twinge for their failed gambles. This horror has been brought to us by your ruling class who ruthlessly enrich the few at the expense of the many. Our “democracy ” is a bad joke.
@Nucky: Enda blaming the people again, what a Grade A Idiot!
The state always stands in defense of its enforcers. As the church acted with impunity once so the police do now with FF and FG backing an utterly discredited Commissioner.
Well no, not really. Society in general back then was dominated by the church…even government was. Separation of church and state and lack thereof was a principle problem. Families were ashamed of what is perfectly normal and natural. They added to this perpetual cycle of hiding the expectant mothers away in these monstrous facilities. This continued well in the 80′s and early 90′s. I am game for criticism of the government and certainly Kenny but this is a tad wide of the mark.
It was the Roman Catholic Church which was to blame, not the people.
Tony surely you mean the Hierarchy of the RCC that is to blame….Pope Cardinals Archbishop Bishop Priests Nuns etc….we’re to blame not the people…..the people are the church…they are only now finding their voice….
@Nucky:  FG/FF/LAB
@Wally – that’s the same defence used by the German populace after the horrors of WW2. While the hierarchy of the church and our political leaders of the time must carry a massive share of the blame, I think the rest of Irish society must hang their communal head in absolute shame as well.
@Kathleen Henderson: the institution of the Roman Catholic Church, primarily the Hierarchy and all those who actively colluded and financially benefited.
Nonsense offtheball. Are you responsible for families being evicted from their homes to fill the coffers of vulture funds now? You take responsibility if you wish but don’t presume to speak for the rest of society. And if you are a mouthpiece for the establishment political class then you do bear great responsibility for this vicious little neoliberal republic.
I see RTE are peddling the same “we are all to blame” pernicious bile on Primetime now.
@Wally Houlihan: it’s the group think that the establishment engages in.Poverty and the powerful stigma of illegitimacy combined to inflict cruelty beyond belief.The power, wealth and privilege of Roman Catholicism engaged in gross exploitation, literally selling babies from baby farms.
And how about the Church of Ireland?
@Sean @114:  a small scale miscreant but evangelical Protestants also had homes with scandals. The difference is that they did not sell babies and had a lower mortality rate.
Hey Tony ask Wally if the unionised members of HSE who failed Grace and others should be fired and lose their entitlements ? They would probably just be reassigned kinda like …….
Tony Protestant homes sold babies to the US after WW2. In fact they were the first to do it. They trafficked babies to the North. ‘Small miscreant’. 227 babies dumped into an unmarked grave in Bethany. Shame on you for downplaying this act. Are you calling for all Protestant homes to be investigated Tony or does your anti-Catholic bigotry prevent that?
@Kathleen Henderson: Tony is obviously referring to the hierarchy of the church.
I don’t like this “we” business. I didn’tdo any of those things, and I wouldn’t have allowed them to happen had I been thereWhen you spread the guilt around across a whole country you let the guilty individuals off the hook. They should be identified and their crimes made known, even if they’re dead
Ageeed – if they can prove there were crimes. Everything I have read indicates a callous disregard for the dead but no way to establish what the cause of death was – let alone who might be responsible.
There are deaths certs with his causes on them, see the articles from a few days ago. Ranging from flu to malnutrition and head trauma
I didn’t see that one but did read one from some forensic scientist that said it would be nearly impossible. Plus, if there was a crime then how to determine who is responsible is the crux of the issue
@justanothertaxpayer:  bone fractures, diseases, malnutrition , and other conditions.
@Emeralds I tend to agree but there is the notion of getting the government you deserve. So move forward to today the royal we are equally responsible for the Grace case especially our minister for finance. Many here point a finger at those who certainly have blood on their hands but avoid any thoughts that their own flesh and blood contributed and accepted the standards of the day. The lack of personal accountability seen in Ireland was born in those days
@lavbeer: and we need to see personal accountability within the Roman Catholic Church, including the deceased perpetrators.
I agree Tony. But as a man in your 60/70s it was your generation that voted the government in who presided over this. Context of time is of little interest to the rabble here. As a younger man my generation has presided over the HSE shambles of the Alice case for example – union protected rather than church but social welfare makes a big difference.  Your assertion that abortion would have resolved the m and b homes remains the most disgusting comment I have read
@lavbeer:  your disgust is over abortion.My disgust is over the killing by neglect of real live and actual babies and the selling of babies for financial profit by the Roman Catholic Church, as found by the Ryan Commission.I never voted for FF or FG, I was a old Labour Party supporter.
I don’t give a sh&&& who you voted for Your generation enabled this. You were part of the problem. You did nothing at the time but pontificate today.Tony lets stop engaging. You can sit behind a computer all day spewing your bile. You are over compensating.
Lavbeer, you’re clearly broken. What happened to you?
@lavbeer: you  are wired a bit oddly.
Point the finger at the church, point the finger at society. That’s all fine and well, but we also need to point the finger at the state, Mr Kenny. It was the state who sanctioned this either directly through the handing over of responsibility, the use of the gardai, health authorities etc, or indirectly like their current failure to properly investigate. The church did not act alone. In what other country would the perpetrators of such horrors be still allowed to run for profit maternity units? How many hospitals are there trading under the bons secours name? It’s akin to Germany still having a mengele facility for twins. Go on Kenny, face up to the state’s role
@Anne Marie Devlin:Exactly.The state owned the site in Tuam, the home was overseen by the health board, government was given regular reports as to events that transpired within the homes, unfortunately ministers and departments washed their hands.Fianna Fail and Fine Gael have a huge culpability here.  Not to mention the Irish medical profession, legal profession, the Gardai etc etc. Responsibility is spread right across the board.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Yes it is, but who carried it out and here you are again defending the church.
@Stephen murphy:Don’t be stupid Stephen.Calling for full accountability right across the board is not defending anyone. It’s a widening of the net.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: why not start with the upper echelons of the Roman Catholic Church, then and now.?
@Emmet O’Keeffe: and deal decisively and severely with those who concealed the truth and sought to deceive, those who instructed Terry Prone  to tell lies.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: and ficus on the perpetrators.
Who made the accusation that nuns broke into peoples’ homes and abducted children. I see that the Taoiseach has denied the accusation.Was it the man with the 2 pints?
Don’t think society is to blame. People believed in the church and trusted them. In that case we all take the blame for child abuse victims also. But no I’m still blaming the religious institutions that committed these inhumane acts. Unfortunately the church seems to be above full rebuke from some. Even now!
One of the survivors groups has accused Minister Zappone of burying a report into the matter.The government will block any attempt to widen the inquiry in an attempt to avoid culpability on the part of the state.This will come to down to an exercise in damage litigation….as all inquiries do.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Thanks Mystic Meg, got tomorrow night’s Lotto numbers by any chance?
@OpenBorders:Flippant as always.
Enda. Stop talking and Act you muppet
When the wrongs of green Eireann , on earth shall be borne! And the hearts of the people with anguish is torn. When death’s a relief and endurance a crime! The arise from your slumbers, for that is your time! Time to wake up folks!
Holy Ireland my bottom it’s happening every day homeless people, hospitals not fit for purpose it’s not the people’s fault Enda think again it’s the political system to blame.
With the dogma of the leader of the Catholic church Bishop McQuaid, and Eamon de Valera of course this was going to happen, as they both hated the working class.
Unless they were dancing at the crossroads.
Enda pointing out awkward truths is obviously uncomfortable for a lot of people.
So you’re accepting blame for this? How noble of you. Bad news though. You’ll be about the only one!
@Dave Thomas:  and Enda giving harsh truths? he was not truthful enough. These girls had no choice in giving their babies they were made to. The only choice a few years ago was to get the boat to england and stand a chance of raising your child. how dare he. he knows the truth.
I supposed the Jews were to blame also I mean for being Jewish? Get real donkey
This is within our lifetime. When we were young and living it up (against the wishes of holy Catholic Ireland). Having a blast. Meeting boys. Lucky, me, to be in a city where if you were in the know, you could have access, even us the unholy unmarried happily single girls/ women, to contraception. But we were the lucky ones. Could have been any one of us. Makes me sick. Truly terrible.
The absolute cheek. “No nuns broke in and stole the babies”. Who Pressured those Sick ideology on the poor vunreble girls, Bet it into them, Manipulated them into whatever they wanted, This ape couldn’t be any more out of touch with the Irish people. How on the face of the earth is he still in charge. What is going on at all.
Enda Kenny is doing the collective “we” again, implicating all of us as included in the blame so as to take the heat and burden of responsibility away from the Roman Catholic Church.FG and FF are Roman Catholic parties.
And Church of Ireland?  Any comment on that institution’s involvement?
@Sean @114:  as I said, evangelical Christians had a lower scale of problem but they did not sell babies for financial profit. That was confined to the Roman Catholic Church which monetised baby farms.
Fr Tony Daly …….
@Tony Daly: you are correct. THEY gave up their babies. No THEY did not. They were made to through shame and lambasting and their parents were put on the stand by the catholic church. These women lost their own lives when they lost their babies. They suffered and still do and yet Kenny says, THEY gave up their babies. How dare he. And if one or two of them did, would you not think through the Church and State those nippers would be looked after and put into good homes. No, no they were not. I guess the state was paying per head to the church and if not they were sold out of this country not to be heard of again. My God I have seen it all now. The Catholic church and all it stands for actually goes against the very things it stands for. Not even against but the evil is sickening. Those babies were thrown into a hell of their own as soon as they were born in those shocking godevil homes as were their mothers. Incredible. You could make a movie about this and nobody would believe it. We are led to believe in this world the Muslims are the terror. My God, its on our own doorstep. Words now finally fail me.!
Not true at all Tony. Again your bigotry is blinding any common sense. The first babies trafficked were from Protestant homes after WW2 and these were sold to families in the US. Money changed hands although not sure if or what profits were made. Furthermore Protestant homes trafficked children to the North. I’ve never read of an instance where money changed hands through this process but I assume so. You should do some research rather than just regurgitating your anti-Catholic bigotry every 15m. You are almost attempting to absolve everyone (state, citizens, other religious bodies) else bar the RCC of blame.
@Sean @114: the baby farms in Ireland started in 1923.
@Mary Ward: excellent and powerfully expressed reply. I take my hat off to you.
Irelands own holocaust . No wonder nazi germany didnt see ireland as a threat during world war 2 they were conspiring and working together .
I always thought it was the devil who was supposed to be evil.
Those young girls did NOT give them up. Their parents maybe made a decision but THEY did not give up their babies. In fact many of those women died with the treatment they got let alone their babies. No you are wrong Kenny, they did NOT give up their babies. Their babies were taken so no. It was under the Catholic horrific church and the law that they were made give their babies up and made feel like they were sub human. How dare you state what you stated today. It is not true and you and the powers that be know it.
This might help answer the questions about the church’s Popehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TXZv9DDCBYw
Sounds like a script from a Movie.
The CAB have been successful, 20 years in the making, of course with typical Irish speed, against Gilligan’s criminal enterprise, they now need to turn their attention to the criminal enterprise known as the catholic church These criminals have killed far more than any criminal organization that has ever operated on this island.  They have perpetrated such horrors that they should be rightly called crimes against humanity and human dignity.  Paedophiles, child abusers, rapists, thieves, child traffickers, condoning domestic violence against mainly women, they have for centuries run the largest con game on poor gullible ignorant easily manipulated people using fear, bullying tactics, bribery, and outright violence.Their ill gotten gains, gained at the expense of the state and tax payers, need to be seized, reparations made to living victims, survivors and their descendants, and the rest used to address the serious and ongoing social and economic consequences of their actions in cahoots with equally guilty persons in the Garda, Dáil , and banking communities.The catholic church needs to be removed from positions of authority in schools, hospitals and the like so their magical thinking cannot infect the minds of the people.  Those who wish to follow  magical thinking can do so without the financial drain on the state and tax payers. Tax them as a corporation and make them open all their files to public inspection.  Are the 796 babies of Tuam are all the skeletons hidden?
https://www.google.ie/amp/amp.irishexaminer.com/ireland/bishop-wants-little-nellie-exhumed-348764.html
ENDA!!!!!,,, do we really have such a spineless idiot as a Taoiseach?????? Again,, it’s time.to remove this pack of snivelling traitors by vote or by the thick end of a boot.. Enough!!! And take their siamese ff idiots also..?.
Your political point is entirely appropriate here huh?
And yet Fine Gael continues to outsource our education to the Church
Shame! This country has a dark past. What’s next?
Still writing cr*p I’d be only to happy to break your other hand.
What’s he talking about WE I wasn’t even born when this went on. Try the word they you silly pri*k.
Kenny wants to transfer the blame for this atrocity from the church and state to the people who suffered ! Nobody would have allowed their children to be incarcerated in this hell hole if they had suspected that the child ended up in a sewer. Manix Flynn, the actor/artist, has spoken out about his experience at the hands of the Gardai, the church  and state, and his experience as a child was horrendous. He was raped, abused and vilified. His parents were ignored and he was incarcerated on trumped up charges in a similar hell hole to that of Tuam.  Flynn is a survivor. Countless others were not. Now, Kenny wants to lay the blame with these innocent victims. The guy is an idiot if he thinks any normal person will agree with his assessment of the situation.
We should ban Enda from coming back to Ireland
Hopefully they send him straight to Guantanamo bay for a few years even if they made a mistake
I can’t bare watch the brown nose fool…its too embarrassing.
‘ I have made the concerns of the Irish people clear to President Trump’ that’s the crap answer we will get
I feel the same way. It makes me sad inside
I wish the journal would stop with all these “shocker headline” non-stories about Trump. Moncrief on Newstalk had the great idea of giving up mentioning Trump for the Lent period.
@Diarmuid Lucey: Are you the largest flightless bird on the planet by any chance?
If you don’t like it don’t read it. Pretty simple.
@Diarmuid Lucey:Trump means money.
Tom Hanks to play Enda Kenny in the Terminal 2.
@Gerry Fitz: Love it, except could they not keep Kenny too?
Dont think he would do it as an actor you never go full reta#d
Hope trump gives him a pair of balls in return for the bowl of shamrock.
Or a spine
My Uncle Evan got an awesome red Suzuki SX4 Sedan just by some part time working onlinewith a pc… visit this page………….http://gee.su/A0237
SO WHAT ???
They might lock him in..
Well shock horror .. imagine something coming into effect while enda is in the USA…
Edna should have resigned. Disgrace of a man and a leader
Your right hes a snake him and his cohorts
All this news about trump & his polices, Lies & problems. We have not even seen anything like it on  our own Taoiseach enda kenny. The media is deceitful, Honest & very influential at times. Don’t forget it.Ireland has some of the most controlled media in the European Union. People think we have a free & open media sector here but we don’t. Any bit of background searching would reveal it.  Seriously who the hell are you people to biitchh about trump when Enda Is just as totalitarian  Just as shady, Just as deceitful As the media portrayed Donald to be? I’m not siding with the orange ape, I’m looking at it with an OPEN mind, Not  based on angry media stories or OR Personal Politics. Trump is not it it for the EUnor any other county. Enda is. If Enda had his priorities set straight for the people of Ireland. He would come across as the same kind of guy trump is(In the eyes of the media &a the way they continue to portray him)  Stockholm syndrome, Google it.
Do us a favour Enda and make that a one way ticket!
After meeting Enda, Trump might expand the ban to us Irish.
or just Mayo
Enda should have some balls and stop refugees coming here
Ireland isn’t flooded with refugees, give over. If you want to complain about something valid, try the vested interests in direct provision remaining
@Tony Canning: All of Africa is planning on coming.      The dead of this week were alive last week, they are still dead, otherwise there would be no insurance companies.
@The Can’t: do you think that ignoring the vested interests in maintaining direct provision in its current state is helping or hindering that situation? Suppliers of accommodation, food, services, law all making a mint. You think sorting that out wouldn’t be beneficial to both us financially and those chancers who would be discouraged by a WORKING system?
@Unsinkable No.2: Kenny is going to Bring the 60 000 undocumented Irish with him. Is that What you want ?
Trump will claim that the ‘rock he got from Kenny is fake — sham rock!!!!
We should open our boarders to the six banned countries as we are so concerned about America’s ban.Like the true Christians we pretend to be.
Hit the nail on the head there Martin! would we open or arm to the six? Would we f!#k!!!
One last pat on the head before he retires on his massive multiple pensions and payoffs paid by you and I
Well lets hope he challenges him on it.
@Lisa Dorothy:Why would he do that?
Lisa I doubt very much that will happen. The man is spineless and has shown that in spades with his dealings with the ECB and EU..he’s a yes man
@Lisa Dorothy: What would that achieve?
@Lisa Dorothy: “Well lets hope he challenges him on it.”Bahahahahahaha, is this your first time hearing of Enda Kenny? :-)
He would have no right to challenge it – as they are a sovereign nation.They have every right to do what they have to do to protect their borders.
Oh Lisa!! is there pink unicorns in you world ?
Like it or not we are in between a rock & a hard place. With may on the left, Trump on the right, Here we are stuck in the middle. Enda is only going to side with trump & may. Enda has already met Theresa may a day after she met trump. Now kenny is meeting trump on the day The Visa ban takes place. Come on guys open your eyes. He is already stuck up trumps ahole.  Why on the day the travel ban takes place? More attention? More media coverage? Like it or not we will go on what America says(Advises) & the same with the uk.It ain’t a coincidence
Hypocrisy of enda knows no bounds. Guess we get what we voted for, the joys of democracy. Farse
Surprised they let Enda in :o
Trump will hit him hard — so I hear your job is under real pressure & How exactly did St. Patrick drive dem snakes outta Ireland….
Why is this individual still running the country ??
Two of the greatest statesmen of the 21st century meeting in the White House on St Patrick’s Day.Makes me proud to be Irish.Erin go Bragh.
Did you mean to have an h on the end there? Suppose you did we’ve little to brag about
So what…..?
the future……..
Yeah the whole world should be ran according to the dictates of the Irish Trots ——They can cure everything!!
Enda I hope he’s deported to Germany to his Mammy Merkel. Merkel can have her pet close by.
Same can be said about his role as minister for health, you know, that extremely important role that everyone seems to make a balls of
The poison chalice of government jobs
@Soccer T’s: leo the lip failed and ran from health,,harris failing in health,,coveney failing in housing,, may as well leave the village idiot kenny where he is,,wont make a blind bit of difference
Simon cant even look after one kid named Ava HE IS DEPLORABLE as health minister.
The only thing I’ll say about this chap is he knows he’s in over his head and he is right to rule himself out. As for health, again you have blame the “boss” for handing the baby a loaded shotgun to play with. Who knows he may even be a good politician but Kenny’s FG may well ruin his career before it even really starts. If he’d any sense he’d bail now.
@Mike Reid: Enda Kenny lacks the intelligence, is a BS artist and a liar. But he got elected, at a time when Bosco could’ve got elected and the way we were.
No truth in rumour his mammy wud not sign the forms then
No bigger than Simon
kenny promised the earth moon and stars in time of crisis but Coveney does not. That’s the difference.
If only he showed the same concern for our collapsing health service as he does for his partys leadership.
Unfortunately the HSE is a beast that can’t be tamed.
@Simon Peters: We it certainly won’t be tamed with a minister tasked with standing in front of the cameras making excuses.
Cross party long term policy is the only thing that can fix our health service but that would involve putting the actual people before party
@Soccer T’s:Exactly. It has been proven over and over again that no one heath minister or one party is capable of making the necessary overhaul of the health system.We need a long term strategy with cross-party agreement that won’t be binned the next time there is a change of government. There also needs to be an independent review of the executive and management of the HSE, the executive seems to be unable to any significant changes no matter how much money is being pumped into the system.
agree w/ soccer-T
No balls, no backbone, he’s a perfect candidate for the leadership of Fine Gael.
@Les Behan: He at least is making inroads where many stud at the cross roads for a long time. I reckon give the lad a chance.
Maybe he should meet that poor woman who’s travelling to dublin for her daughter rather than blowing his trumpet
Through
@Paul Somers: What horse, did he mount at the cross road and I hope he was up to the task?
@Stephen murphy: Woops typo I meant Stood. Irrespective by the looks of it the majority thing I am wrong.. there you go :)
‘Think’ but agree, the red thumbs aren’t for the typos.
Can’t even get a plant prescribed for people that need it badly. Rather see people take pharmaceutical drugs that have no medicinal value and severe side effects. No hope of ever running a country
“I serve at the pleasure of the Taoiseach, and the Taoiseach has not yet indicated his own intentions,” he added.No you don’t. You serve at the pleasure of the public, you know, the people that pay your ridiculous wages and expenses.
No, the Taoiseach appoints ministers
emeralds is right. it’s just Harris’s way of saying i ain’t running.
It is not just experience he lacks.
has experience worked in the past w the Hse, err no.
Hang in there Simon.. Stay leeching around the place & get yourself into the backbench, say nothing for 30 odd years & you will stroll in.
Might just have a tiny bit of respect for you Simon Harris if you gave Vera Twomey 1 minute of you time today and picked up your phone and called her. I hope you never witness a loved one suffer from uncontrollable Epilepsy or any refractory condition. #dirtbird
Failing badly in the Health Portfolio is good preparation for being Taoiseach.
Sorry but it really does,nt matter which one of them get the “job” they will continue more of the same as there is no accountability when they fcuk up which I am 100% sure of. The media of course trying their best to make them sound relevant.
he has an unhealthy approach to the health portfolio.
It is an impossible job…I notice on RTE was not asked about his promise to fire incomponent managers he made several weeks ago… That would certainly help the €14 billion HSE…
Firing civil servants is impossible in this country.
All he said he would do was ask for a review of all senior managers.
Remove from their roles ……https://www.google.ie/amp/www.thejournal.ie/hse-managers-simon-harris-3230151-Feb2017/%3Famp%3D1
“Could be removed” when translated from politicianish to English, means “will never be removed”
Frances Fitzgerald is probably feeling optimistic after her stellar performance in the Dept of Justice.Lol!
What’s that say about his current job as minister of health.  He has no experience for that either. So is he saying you need more experience to become the leader of fg than the minister in charge of health..?
yep, as the next FG leader is also going to be Taoiseach.
Fitzgerald need not waste her time running for leader as she not handle justice very well o Sullivan etc ! Anyway she’s probaly looking for cabinet post that why she thinking of running hoping that coveney or varadaker offer her post for her having this called stroke politics
People are dying so this fella can gain experience.thats fg.
the last guy had loads of medical experience and didn’t succeed either so why not give him a chance?
Have to agree with Gregory here, o’ reilly was cack
30 going on 90. That ministerial position ages people something fierce.
@Bingobango: Image of Mr Burns
Francis Fitz the omni-shambles?  Dear Jebus it just get worse.
No. It could not.
Couldnt agree more,as well as being a blatent liar she is also the greatest waste of space that ever held a minestry. If there is a job for arse covering and telling lies to the electorate she would sail into the next cabinet
Apart from being elected as a td. What exactly has this guy done? He was minister of state at the dept of finance when asset stripping was in full swing. Does he want house prices to increase like his former master Noonan?
Minister Harris I keeping an extremely low profile on the Tuam babies atrrocities
Clearly stating the obvious minister harris, your progress in health speaks volumes.
Francis Fitzgerald,I’m surprised she didn’t ask to set up a commision  to look into joining the rat race
He’s too young for Misinster for Health, never mind leader of the country. In 10 years time maybe.
his youth might yet kick seven shades of s**te out of them where all previous experienced ministers failed.
Pathetic, the kind of crap that the public must endure as well as lack of leadership. Why have all this lot allowed an incompetent arrogant Taoiseach continue to represent the country , only because of fear that they might be at personal loss , if they failed to oust him. Not a semblance of a leader in sight, other than self serving opportunists.
He’s in charge because of votes Fg got in the electiom ie “us”…well time to go though f EK
His mother and father should give him a slap around the head and tell him to go see a bit of the world ould fashion p.ick
Doesn’t stop him pretending he’s the minister for health.
His cocky arrogance does not endear him to the public.
does no matter. results matter.
@gregory:He has the wrong brief then if his reputation is staked on results.
a nauseating little bolix
Forget it Frances, you are a useless Justice Minister, just take the pension and go.
Wouldn’t you be pure sick of the bucket of shite they keep feeding the public? Edna was being forced to go by his own party two weeks ago and yet these gormless deluded fools think we care about the empty chair…..that’s not yet there. Would someone put me out of my misery and tell me when this unending crapology is finally over. Edna will tittle back from the USA and will still be in power six months down the line even tough he’s been found out lying to our faces never mind the untold truths we don’t know about yet. And yet FF are remarkably silent as are our lovely Endapendents mind you they seem to be scarce on the ground all weekend. Ohh of course they must be busy deciding what outfits they need on their trips all over the world whilst they should really be hanging their heads in shame at the scandals engulfing the country
What he said.
More of this crap!
BREAKING NEWS. I wanna rule myself out too! Who’d wanna work with such an incompetent bunch.
More of what crap?
And Francis thinks we’ve all now forgotten about her disasterous performance and show of gross incompetence only a few short weeks ago.And Leo’s probably getting impatient cause he can only get away with leaking damaging info to the press on his party colleagues for so long, and he’s slowly losing favour.And sur “I wanted housing” coveney hardy ever has a clue whats going on.What a bunch!
I can’t forget how uncomfortable Frances was on “The Week in Politics” when Aine Lawlor asked Her a Few Straight Questions
They are all a hole’s not one of them have sorted anything they just waffle and pass the buck! Get rid of them all
And put you in there Linda??? You won’t be happy until you have someone to give out about
Is Frances Fitzgerald completely Out of Touch with Reality.She Lost All Credibility on “The Week in Politics” about 4 Weeks Ago.People on Taxpayers Funding Should Be Accountable to the Truth.
He appears the best potential, but not this time around, non-Irish observers have noted him.FG have two real good options as opposed to the normal less desirable or compromise candidate, Frances is a nice lady but no thanks, she may be put up as king making ghost.
So many critics. And not one of you willing to standing for election I bet.
Troll better . Competence and progressive views arent really all that tolerated in Dail Eireann so..
Troll better? No intent at trolling, just stating the obvious. There is not one constructive criticism in this thread, just negative brain dead insults – because it’s the easy thing to do. People vote the same time and time again, including all the commentators here, but nobody willing to admit it. I for one, would not be willing to do the job of politician because I know it would be a nightmare, therefore I try to constructive in my commentary, and not just plain thick.
Enda has a great legacy with new taxes and we shouldn’t forget…https://www.rt.com/news/231783-political-policing-quash-dissent/#.WL3GOXQipSc.facebookWho could follow him???
Frances Is a great candidate,  a victory for feminism.
Francis has zero chance after covering up for Noirin and misleading the Dail.
Is That what we Pay Her to Do ?
It certainly is not.
“A victory for feminism”Jesus wept.
Fitzgerald was a very good Minister for Children & Youth Affairs. In the role she spoke out forcefully against the Catholic Church’s role in covering up child abuse. And there is no denying she also started out very strongly as Minister for Justice & Equality as the chief voice pushing for the Marriage Referendum in the Dail.However. . . her dealing with the whistleblower craic has been hugely sub par when she needed to stand up. Health is a tough portfolio, and she has shown when shit hits the fan he crumbles.
@Havid Dickey: *she crumbles
:-)
The people of Tuam have known about this for decades.  You have politicians, archbishops, Gardai, county councillors, priests, nuns, from past and present, who know exactly what was done.  The cowards were putting the church’s interests above the children that lay in that septic tank.
@Derrick McGrath: Roman Catholic Church ruled harshly and oppressively.
Read up on the likes of the Fethard on Sea Boycott of the 1950′s or the sacking of Eileen Flynn from her teaching post in the 1980′s to see what kind of power the church had.
Fg investigating this is a joke fg have no credibility left after what was done to mccabe.we will never get the truth while ff fg are in government.
We will only get the truth when the establishment is gone.fg goneFf goneThey are the two party’s that are completely controlled by the church.Mary Boyle case also needs to be opened up as well the truth has to come out and people prosecuted for their crimes.
You are right Bobby but unfortunately that goes for all the older parties in the Dail.
The Catholic Church forms part of the ruling class establishment which supports the capitalist state and was supported and facilitated in its oppression in return. Any institution outside the ruling class with such a legacy of vile abuse would have been crushed and dismantled. Religion is a very useful tool of control for the elites.
@Tony Daly: They only ruled because society allowed it.
In the same way the police are another tool of the ruling class used to control the majority. Which is why the stand in defense of O’Sullivan now as they did for the religious hierarchy in the past. FF and FG will never be found wanting when the powerful need protecting or the weakest need crushing.
@Burke John: they ruled by fear and oppression relying on the Irish need for conformity. The price of opposition was ostracism and banishment. Truly we are a Church ridden society.
@Derrick McGrath: And what has changed? This state has always been incapable of looking after the most vulnerable and this includes the present day. It has farmed out its fundemental responsibilities to third parties with no oversight ever since its inception the result is victims. The treatment of Catherine Corless shows how incapable the public service is in dealing with human beings. And Kenny saying these were treated like a sub-species – anyone would think he was just born yesterday.
@Austin Rock: Indeed I wonder what Shannon Condon thinks of Enda’s statement……
To be fair, this has come out under an fg government. I’m not giving them any credit or anything but an investigation started
Tuam is the most infamous town in Ireland now.
That place in tuamWas a workhouse for years under the British we all know what happened in workhouses a lot of kids there at that time died and were buried there and a lot of people were buried there during the famine that was before the church took over there so let’s go back to the start
@Derrick McGrath: There are many places in Ireland people know about stuff and never say a word to help any victim, some were told to turn their eye at abuse from religious orders, to harrassment to all forms of corruption to even pure evil. It seems to be the Irish way, what about children born the wrong side of the marriage bed thrown into mental hospitals for the rest of their lives or Gardai forced to look the other way when it came to a politician or priest?RTE’s Would You Belive program had an episode years ago about a well known pharmaceutical company doing brain surgery on healthy children here in orphanages, that caused disabilities. Why was that hushed up as I later found out it was more common than many knew? That a place near the midlands was doing the same with the mentally handicapped and people in that area knew about it but the religious back then had the power and fear over people…
@Wally Houlihan: This is true of every political system that has ever existed. Don’t act like this is unique to capitalist societies. Humans are naturally inclined to develop hierarchies in some form or another, this will never change. The best we can do is to implement this inclination to serve the wider population as best as possible.
So what exactly is he going to do about it? Is there any political party that will once & for all take the Catholic Church to task on the multiple atrocities they committed on the island of Ireland?
@RMcG: FF and FG are Roman Catholic Church dominated.
Forty yrs in the dail representing a western constituency,and he never heard even a whisper..convenient…finger on the pulse as always
Well Enda is correct, they walked in single file to school & no interaction with local children. Dehumanised  beyond belief.
true. sure cows &sheep atthe time wer treated better than these woman & they were treated like that because they were women. where were the men who made them pregnant? where were the laundries for the men? fallen women but no fallen men because the church is run by men
Kenny’s father was a TD while it was golng on!!
And we can judge enda Kenny on that ??
He’s cornered and he has answered appropriately as recommended to his entourage of civil servants etc. Please give me a break here. He knew that horrendous revelations were available pertaining to Tuam years ago when Catherine Corless first flagged it . His reaction is directly equivalent to the wide scale abhorrence of the electorate to the revelations NOW.
Having been in a similar institution in the late seventies as a newly born until I was five months old, I’m glad I wasn’t born twenty or thirty years earlier.
Every conceivable official obstacle and legal barriers was put in the way of Catherine Corless, the brave an tenacious researcher.
Tuam did not happen in isolation.The Roman Catholic Church stigmatised illegitimacy, it used the criminal law to prevent access to condoms, it isolated and ostracised unmarried mothers, it depicted the babies as the wages of sin, it used these mother and child homes as baby farms and illegal adoption issues, it separate babies form mothers, its destroyed records, it failed to record al birth and deaths, it refused baptism to most of the babies, it buried the dead babies with no funeral rites outside of consecrated ground and it treated the babies as sub human.This is the same Roman Catholic Church which has the temerity to lecture to us on retaining the Eight Amendment.
@Johnny Kelly: it was the Roman Catholic Church which imposed the stigma of illegitimacy and the threat of ostracism and social rejected.
@Johnny Kelly: The church pushed its agenda that pregnancy and sex outside of marriage was a mortal sin. This meant that it was consider the same as murder which is also considered a mortal sin in the catholic church’s books.The church was heavily involved in the goverment as the “moral guardian” of the people and they setup the homes with the view of “they knew best” and that the homes were the best places for these “fallen women”.The church would turn the community against anybody that did or said something they didn’t agree with. If you claimed a priest abused your child the church would turn the community against you and move the priest on, if you had a brother who left the priesthood the local priest would turn the entire community against the family and also try and get the family to turn against them too! (why do I know this?, because I had a relative that left the priesthood and thats exactly what they tried to do).The familys have a level of fault sure, but the biggest fault is at the feet of the catholic church. They created the perfect storm of power and control over the people of Ireland and it was really only the 1990′s before this really started to change.I strongly suggest that you take the time to do some reading about the life of Bishop McQuaid and his influance in Ireland, he fought pretty much every progressive thing aimed at improving the life of women and single mothers during his lifetime!
@Johnny Kelly:  context is relevant. The outline above is factual and accurate.
@Johnny Kelly: your approach is one which depends on ignorance of the facts.
Buried the babies is putting it too politely. These disgusting individuals dumped the poor children in a sewage tank. Absolute genocide
It was a genocide under a religion
Why is this site not classed as a crime scene ?  Typical  reaction from the Gardai and government  soundbites and turn the other way . see bon secours order has hired Terry Prone to cover its denial ,as she wrote to a French T.V channel ,”No mass burial site in Tuam  .”
@whitecross: Terry Prone was and continues to be paid a Sean Fortune for her “news management”.
When ‘ Mass’ graves were found in Bosnia, the UN were called in. On such a scale as 800 Bodies found, imagine ‘ Found ‘, !! In Holy Ireland,  They UN should come in to Ireland and sort out the ‘ Slaughter of the Innocents ‘, in all Crime Sites i.e. Nuns convents.!!
Martín there were death certificates for the babies in Tuam so it’s not comparable with the mass graves in Bosnia. There were no burial records to match the death certs, which is how Catherine Corless (a true hero) was able to calculate the numbers when the story broke originally. That’s not to say the nuns don’t have a case to answer, they do indeed. The infant death rates in these places was noticeably higher than the general population and this was commented on at the time. By the way, Ms Corless had to pay from her own funds for each death certificate, as official Ireland refused to cooperate with her. She at very least deserves to be repaid all her costs, because as an ordinary citizen she has done the state a great service, even if some arms of the state and the church wished she’d go away.
@Jimmyjoe Wallace: death certificates have not been  traced in all cases and in many cases of the death certificates no medical practitioner was present to confirm cause of death.
I’m not reading anything this shitebag has to say
Even on a rare occasion like this when he speaks the truth ?
bla bla blacksheep have u any wool…… jesus do the right thing and force a criminal investigation  that would seem like the right thing to do
Took home long enough to say something about this terrible terrible disgrace.
Gardai, politicians, church, men and women in authority who knew damn well what was going on in Tuam, yet turned a blind eye and/or facilitated the goings on, should be held accountable and those surviving should have criminal charges brought against them. It’s as simple as that. Yet, like all other forms of corruption and scandal in this country involving those at the top, we know that there will be no accountability and so no justice. That’s how Ireland works.
The animals should not be allowed to hide behind the “it wasn’t me” s*it. Members of this evil twisted cult known as the Catholic Church should be dragged from their warm fireside and forced, under penalty of heavy jail terms, to reveal all they know. Autopsies should be carried out on every human being found to determine the cause of death and anyone involved that is still alive should never see freedom again. Church assets should be frozen.The above comments are pure fantasy though. This is what would happen in a civilised country that wasn’t afraid of the church. A country whose leaders weren’t afraid that it may hurt their parties who could possibly have colluded with this evil cult. A country that puts the lives of the innocent first.Ireland is a worse place than the bottom of that tank
Rob it’s not just the ‘it wasn’t me’ gang, society in general at the time is to blame as well. And that’s not to absolve the church of any blame whatsoever. ‘we didn’t know what was going on, I wouldn’t have let my daughter go there had I known’. Sorry but that’s BS. Society at large was complicit in this, notwithstanding the grip the church had on society. We still to this day have mothers siding with the husband who abuses his own daughters.
@Jimmyjoe Wallace: I think you might be underestimating the control that cult had over this country.
Roman Catholic Groups are now mobilising to deny what happened in Tuam.This is one example from the US, the Catholic League.http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/tuam-babies-scandal-is-fake-news-claims-the-catholic-league-35504516.html
Tony this is just one moron writing from his bedroom. Something the indo picked up on. He has no connection with the real powers in the church who had the ability to stop massacres like this. This church is full of snakes but the aren’t stupid enough to deny this happened. Silence is their weapon of choice
@ChuckE: the Catholic League has received Diocesan funding from the Roman Catholic
It wouldn’t surprise me but the digging I did suggests all their funding comes from rank and file church goers not the boys upstairs. Where did you get that info ?. I’m not arguing with you as I think we both have the same veiw of them in general
@ChuckE: I asked a school friend who is a US lawyer to check the records of donations for  me. These are the donations out of Diocescan funds. Religions which are charities have to account for all charitable funding.
Next step should be, by all things decent, up to the Gardai. Criminal investigation is needed here, not an inquiry or commission.But we need an impartial Garda force, something we do not have.
@Dave Doyle: An Garda Siochana has dutiful and loyal Roman Catholic officers to “investigate”.
How long will it take for the next Roman Catholic Church scandal to emerge?
The Vaccine Trials will be next.. that one will be multi generational..ie there’s going to be victims and children of victims as yet undiagnosed as having been infected. It going to be a cross of the Hep C scandal , the Nazi medical experiments and the current scandal.
The need to excavate at Letterfrack industrial school. It’s not just the mother and child homes where similar things happened.
The Roman Catholic Church has a lot of “previous” on the inhumane maltreatment of babies and young children.
All piss and wind . Nothing will be done ,no one will be investigated. Its a sick country we live in
Holy Catholic Ireland at its worst .The dead cannot cry out for justice ,it is the duty of the living to do it for them .
The Roman Catholic Church saw them not as babies but as the living embodiment of carnal sin.
@Tony Daly: that and something to profit from if they could sell the baby to a good fine vetted American catholic family
@Barry Somers: money and religion is a powerful combination.
Kenny said today that the way babies OF single mothers were treated in the country was akin to some kind of sub species ! The arrogance of this government makes me sick , why could he not say ” the way babies AND single mother’s were treated was akin to some kind of sub species ?? My child was 3 weeks old and I was barely 17 when the last “home” was closed ! I cried today in therapy for those mothers ,those babies and myself as not a lot has changed ! Stigma is STILL the scourge on this society , the state , the church AND some of society need to take a good look at them selves ! Thinking of all those affected by this horrific torture today ,!
An Garda Siochana will proceed in ultra slow motion on this investigation.
Weak words from a weak man!
The full story emerged in 2014 but the conventional position was that there was no proof.
The supporters of the Roman Catholic Church will obstruct the repeal of the Eight Amendment.
Jenny’s father was a TD then
Are we supposed to consider this as some kind of mark of what a leader should think. It suits him to gain the votes of the most hard-line of Catholics,who actively donate and serve the ideology that did this ..
Religion must be banned
@A Random Guy: That’ll be difficult, you could ban it in public places and restrict practice to home and church. Get it out of schools, have no baptism/communion/confirmation until the person is an adult and gives consent.
Stephen ..is that up to the parents to decide?
@Stephen murphy: Stephen, Random Guy is here to deflect away from the issue, his ‘Religion must be banned” is an effort to start a different debate.Typical FG fraperoom tactics.
If a mass grave of unidentified bodies, whose death was from unknown causes, was found anywhere else there would be a significant criminal investigation initiated immediately. Instead we’ll have a commission for years with nobody guilty of anything “because that was the way it was back then. Sure wasn’t it shocking!”. Instead they try to blame “society”. Bollocks! I’m part of society and we had no hand or part in the criminal activities that took place there. Kidnap, forced labour, slavery in another guise. All the while the apologists spout “but there are good priests too”. Strip the church of ALL its assets now to compensate the victims. Arrest all those suspected of those crimes. Investigate and prosecute.
We can say ban them. . Strip their assets but we all know that it isn’t going to happen. .
To paraphrase a remarkAs the Roman Catholic Church would say” Give us the live baby: we won’t give you the remains”.
“The Taoiseach also told RTÉ that it was up to the coroner and everyone involved ” Enda swiftly moving aside from any responsibility for what happens next. Some leader……
Would any responsible parent not entrust an unsupervised  child to this sick and heinous religion?
Well that was society. Unfortunately. Power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. The little nuns thought they were right but society by omission approved and turned the blind eye. This blame is a shared blame.
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair:  but primarily with those who had the moral, religious, social and legal power, namely the Roman Catholic Church.
It breaks my heart to think of these Children and Mothers and how they were treated. As a single Mam to a beautiful 3 month baby boy I thank my lucky stars that times have changed. Someone needs to be held accountable for the murders of all these poor little souls
@Johnny Kelly: look to the dominance and control of the Roman Catholic Church to start with
Single mums are normally the first to face cuts in bugdets. An easy target for them Sickening
When did Irish people become so bad? Have we always been like this?
The blame is shared , but not every one will be held accountable !
@Rhona: the blame primarily lies with the actual perpetrators,
Enda, stop talking and act you muppet.
Tuam was originally called Tuaim na Ghulaann which translates ,” Burial Mound of the Two Shoulders” There are archaeological findings going back to the Bronze Age that that demonstrate that the area was an and I ntand traditional burial ground.The nameTuam is a cognate with the Latin term “tumulus” which translates ” Burial Mound”.
@Mike Holmes: but the remains found have been confirmed  to the period when the place was in use as a baby farm and an illegal adoption agency.
http://www.catholicleague.org/irelands-mass-graves-story-is-fake-news/
Oh wow! Their denial is that’s its not an official mass grave because nobody has counted how many bodies were thrown in there! To be honest it’s exactly what I’d expect from them
Dave .. that’s just some fool sitting behind a key board . It is not from the Catholic church and the Catholic church has nothing to do with the Catholic league . The link Stephen Murphy posted means nothing ..
Kenny, you do have the authority to order the right sort of inquiry  into this affair.  You won’t  so let’s not dance around this! Reason you won’t  Too expensive and also possibly given your current weakish position you might need the support  of your local clergy who may have tentatively forgiven you for your wonderful speech in Dail Eireann re the Cloyne report but who will hang you up by your ‘Buster Brown’s ‘ if you try to push this too far.
It’s the only thing I d agree with him on.
@eileen boles: Kenny is just mouthing the words put there. He couldn’t give a fcuk.
Am I missing something here? Now, I haven’t read every single comment so forgive me if I am repeating what someone else has said but this government with their cheerleaders in pretend opposition as well as the last government, have done more to create circumstances where children in this country are living in the kind of persistent persistent poverty that would make the tories feel embarrassed. Watching myriad politicians feign disgust at this vile development is sickening given their support for measures which have widened the gap between the haves and the have nots.How many children are homeless now?
I seriously doubt this is localised to Tuam. Sad to think that a story so depraved is just filler. Everyone expressing horror, buying time until the next time the shit hits the fan. Nothing will be done, no one will be held accountable. You can get away with anything in this country… literally buring babies
Tuam is only one town. There were places like this all over the country. Did this happen everywhere?  Are they going to exhume the bodies and forensically examine them? They should and they must. It’s certain that terrible violence was visited on vulnerable defenceless young women and children. Somebody must face up to their responsibilities.
We go on about the British what they did to us even in school they talk about it.  But do any of us go on about the church, what they did was evil. I say we all know someone abuse by the church or where victims. To tell you the power they have we still go to mass we been so long abuse some still side with the church. We still involved the church,  the church should be forgotten.  The victims remember everything church owned sold and evey one get a share.
Hypocrite…you know about this years and yet you say it must be dealt with quickly and decisivly
The church still runs this little island, if a young girl gets raped and falls pregnant, she is still shunned by the catholic heretics and has to travel across the water in total shame to have anything done about it.
Major difference between Irish church institutions and Gestapo? Gestapo kept better records of their transgressions!
Thats what happens Taoiseach. When society censors a subgroup socially dead. As in: natally alienated, violently dominated, and generally dishonoured. Same process same result throughout time and space. American Indians (Original Americans), African slaves, peasant Irish, German and Eastern European Jews and homosexuals, mentally I’ll and physicslly disabled; “illegitimate” (born to unwed parents) children and  their mothers. Unwanted (inconvenient) unborn children.  Drug addicts. MThey all thereafter tend to end up physically dead too as a rule.
@John O’Driscoll: edit: renders not censors, above.  Tablet keyboard. Although couldnalmost have left it as censors same thing in a way.
This is from JUNE of 2014..ENDA KENNY WAS  WELL AWARE OF WHAT HAPPENED IN TUAM AND ELSEWHERE..IT WAS  HIS PART FINE GAEL AND FIANNA FÁIL THAT ALLOWED IT TO CONTINUE UNABATED..https://www.rte.ie/news/2014/0610/622730-cabinet-meet-babies/
Kenny is an expert on recognizing those that were/are treated like ‘some kind of sub-species’. He does it all the time to the lower class citizens of this state.
People’s faith lessened and that lessened the control the hierarchy and priests and religious had.  If their faith was as strong as back then the babies would be fired into septic tanks today.  Unbaptised babies that die would be degraded in death by being buried like pariahs.  Even now the Church still politely suggests unbaptised babies are sort of  sub human for their God receptors are not turned on and you need baptism for that.  God rejects a baby until a priest sprinkles water on her.  Do not forget that individualism is against Catholicism.  The Church teaches that each member is magically or supernaturally connected to the other and all together they form a body like a physical body in the eyes of God.  This is the doctrine of the mystical body.  That is why the religion has to be judged by the whole membership.  It makes liars of those who say, “Not all bad.”  The Church herself rejects their lie for the teaching is that one sick part of the body affects the whole so one sin is the business of the whole and we can commend the Church for teaching that guilt by association is true.  And if it is true of any other body it is very definitely true of the Church.
If the DUP cannot look at the results of this election and hear the word ‘EQUALITY’ being screamed in their heads, then they have a major problem. An 8 point swing from unionist to nationalist seat majority is stark. Arlene fosters first preference votes in her own constituency was actually DOWN despite a higher turnout.SF played a blinder capitalising on her ‘Crocodile’ comment.
I read an article there in the online Belfast telegraph by Foster talking about unionists should be transfering votes to unionists &the scary reality of a SF first minister &nationslist majority in the north.her whole platform is a bout stoking sectarianism which is very worrying fear&division is not the way to go its only going backwards to the bad old days
But the demographics have changed. The existence of Northern Ireland as a part of the UK hinges on Catholics’ acquiescing. Her antics make that less likely, and she’s angering a good many Protestants too.
Dean she showed promise, a false dawn, she has set the peace process back years, the only good thing is a lot of unionism agree about this and want her gone. She is divisive, speaks dangerous rhetoric of bigotry and attempts to dehumanise half the ppl of the north, she is entitled to her opinion like the lunatic in the TUV party but its not acceptable for the leader of NI. She makes my blood boil with her surly attitude and arrogance.
The headline and the story don’t match.
Yeah, it doesn’t explain at all what’ll happen.
@Darren Bates: It’s the journal,what did you expect?
They should throw Arlene to the wolves. She is backwards and too bitter. Ian Paisely Jnr. should replace her.
@watersedge: Unfortunately, and to the great loss of all involved, Ian Paisley Jr. has stated that he’s not interested in the gig. Hopefully he has a change of heart.
What if the wolves dont take her
@The Risen: That’s a pity, don’t know much about the man but he seems to have a bit of cop on. They will just go around in circles with Arlene. It has to be a mutual partnership of compromise and respect for it to work.
Not wolf’s but crocodiles.
Am stunned that the unionist majority is gone. Even more stunned that the south is indifferent. SDLP have an opportunity is work on moderate middle class republicans, there are gaps between FF SF FG.
My vote would go to APNI and not the SDLP.
Good news! They used STV so you can vote 1,2 and DUP 13th or wherever.
A lot of the photographs on this issue feature Gerry Adams – I wouldn’t be surprised to see him as campaign in the future as a prospective First Minister in the North when our government inevitably implodes.
@Rob:  Unlikely seeing as Gerry Adams is a southern politician, having walked away from the north. He can’t have it both ways…..
What can’t he? He is irish and has the right north or south!
@ Chris Kirk; like All of Sinn Fein Gerry Adams is an ALL Ireland politician!!!!
Wasn’t there a unionist politician a year or two ago, his name escapes me, who said they should do away with this power sharing and the assembly by normal majority like any other parliament.Wonder if he still thinks that would be a good idea……
@P.J. Nolan:“run the assembly”
Peter robinson said that I believe
Surely if it goes to another vote the unionists will lose their majority? Reasons for their sharp decline was attributed in a large part to her unpopularity.  The fact that she refuses still to step down would surely sink them. I wonder if it’s crafty Sinn Fein’s game..
arlene foster the sectarian swine…
Let another election happen there will be a huge turn out. The Nationalist know that Sinn Féin are within touching distance of a majority. Now is the time to do it.
@Micheal S. O’ Ceilleachair:In fairness that sword could cut both ways, the fact that SF came so close this time could galvanise unionism just as easily as nationalism.No doubt this result will have absolutely stunned unionism, question is will they entrench, or reach out to make a deal before it is enforced on them by a nationalist majority. History suggests the former.
It’s strange that the DUP and SF stress that they’re saving their supporters from the other party. I was surprised by Eoin O’ Broin saying a very Rabbitte-esque ” what you say during an election campaign is very quickly forgotten when you get into those negotiations” – so both sides bluster and condemn but know that once the dust settles, its as you were.
The surge in support for s/f is due to Martain Mc Guinness  retiringIf Gerry Adams stepped down the same support for S/F would happen in the south
Danny Flynn. That is a very simplistic view of this election, it went right back to the core ‘civil rights’ demands of the republician/ nationalist of their votes and voices being heard and given the respect that is their right.
90 seats, for that small province and size of population. We have too many here , ourselves and should only have 111 seats for the Republic.
We already had the ‘chuckle brothers’, now it seems that we have the two ugly sisters as Northern Ireland politics goes from bad to worse.
Talks in the north today of Arlene Foster maybe stepping down as First Minister, while remaining the leader of the DUP. This would be similar to Michelle O’Neil remaining as Deputy First Minister wit Gerry Adams as president of Sinn Fein.
I think the word Democratic in the DUP is a joke, what would Ian Paisley say about all this, I think he would kick her ash out the door without any cash this time lol.As leader of the DUP she is condoning and reinforcing peoples worries about what she is accused of by her actions, how is that ethical or democratic in any democracy, her actions and her is the best thing going for S.F. So may she be leader of the DUP for evermore now…
Coveney is seen as a safer pair of hands. Varadkar is still a bit green IMO and prone to speaking before he thinks. His comments declaring Trump shouldn’t be invited to Ireland was ill-judged and bound to bite him in the ass. It was a cheap, populist comment.  He’s also way too cosy with the media and gets far too much positive and easy press while his actual political performance is very rarely critiqued.I reckon he’s a media darling because he leaks information to the press constantly. I’ll admit, initially I was taken in a little by him 4 or 5 years ago and liked him, but now I see him as a bluffer. A total spoofer, and a lightweight.
And the farmers love Coveney too. But he is not so loved in Cork as was evidenced by his dreadful election result. :
Not being so loved locally is probably a positive thing as it indicates less parish pump politics and a politician who is more focused on the national issues.
Well said.Varadker is too ambitious.Varadker in the past travelled to Dubai, USA, Mexico for Paddys day.He likes the exotic trips.This year he got Australia (lovely) but he refused it so he wouldn’t be too far away from his leadership bid.Coveney is going to Canada.Coveney is getting on with the job while Leo is thinking of Leo.
@tom . He’s probably in the wrong constituency. If he was in a rural one it would suit his farmer outlook.
Tom, when your twitter handle is @campaignforleo your spot on when you say Leo thinks of Leo.
Last line Leo only thinks about Leo is an adequate summary of Leo and the D4 media lovers still write about him with old work horse blinkers.
Serving & former Irish Army Air Corps personnel have died from cancer & suicide since Simon Coveney ignored Air Corps Protected Disclosures in November 2015.The protected disclosures exposed ongoing chemical Health & Safety breaches leading to ill health & deaths of numerous serving & former personnel, their children and possibly spouses.Coveney liked being Minister for Defence when it involved photo opportunities with shiny new Naval Service ships being launched in his constituency.Dead service personnel and their children aren’t good for his image.
@Mr Snuffleupagus:  Coveney will take directions from Mr Sutherland, that is in no way good for Ireland. Hopefully FG will remain in opposition after the next GE.
@Burke John:Your right Coveney will take orders from his “higher ups” but so will Leo as will Michael. But then if it ever came to pass, Gerry would too, now they might kick and scream for a while like there idols, Sirzia, but they will toe the line too.He who pays the piper, calls the tune.
@Mr Snuffleupagus: Who in there wright mind would vote for anyone in FG/FF anymore.ONLY anyone getting brown envelops FFS people cop on.
Not surprised really. Coveneys ability to ignore the democratic will of the people in favour of his partys ideology will go down well with the rank and file. Be warned though, he’s the bilderbergs man in the room and water poverty will become a feature of our society if we take our eye off his ilk.
Yes, lets cower under the bed over the possibility of paying a fiver a week for water while we are happy paying €20,€30,€40,€50,€60 a week in usc.
KerryBlueMike. You and your ilk will be shown the door soon enough. Referendum on water NOW.
The people who don’t want to pay €5 per week for water don’t pay any USC.
Alan Brogan. Another blueshirt gobsh!te.
This obsession with water charges has been severely detrimental to Irelands progress. Move on FFS!
Alan Brogan. Written good enough for you to reply to. Don’t fret it’s not your fault. Repeat daily.
They are both cheeks of the same arse
Written ‘well’ enough is what you mean. Is English your first language?
Alan Brogan. We all laugh in the same language and I am laughing at you.
@Alan Brogan: lol, so true : )
I agree there should be a referendum on keeping Irish water in the ownership of the Irish people, in state hands, no privitisation.
It’s not just the charges stucture (which will always rise never goes down) its the notion of citizens cash providing venture capital for another vulture to use as a cash cow. Until State ownership is enshrined in the Constitution this infrastructure should be going no where. The debate around at the moment is dressage and a deflection from the core principles.
He’d have my vote. He’s the stronger candidate, Leo is a populist vote
Coveney goes to a Bilderberg meeting with former FG people such as Ex Goldman Sachs Peter Sutherland amongst others and now he is heir apparent?
As if it’s going to make a blind bit of difference. Party first, people last.
Zig or zag
Quite so. Both polls are likely well within the margin of error.
Rodge or podge
Mmmm, I wonder if the paint on that ceiling is dry yet…..
What are the specufuc policy differences between them?
Both are in favour of the letter ‘i’.
@Alan Brogan:  perfect!
Spot the kiwi! I read that in a Brent Pope voice
They’re both cints.
Punch or Judy?
When coveney was agri/marine minister, I addressed an very important issue with a fishery been over exploited and been put at risk of collapse, He responded with the clear intentions he wouldn’t let this happen and that a management plan would be put in place to protect the fishery that was back in 2012, he done fud all and let the fishery decline further. With bad advise from the likes of paschal Hayes . We need someone who is going to stand up for the Irish people and our resources.
@dotty: Covney is part of the Globalist elite, thank God for Donald Trump
Well we all know that traditional FG voters are older and more conservative and one of the aforementioned potential leaders is gay so that alone might explain a lot
No use being popular to people that are going to vote for fg anyway. It’s the other votes you want. Therefore coveney is a poor choice.
Actually makes no difference which of them gets it public fed up of so called new politics opposition running the government and country ok
It’s actually a very tricky choice for the party.While Varadkar would no doubt boost the vote among the young and in Dublin, i think for every young vote they win they will lose an older conservative less educated vote. Vadakar would also create an impression of FG being a Dublin elite party, while Coveney is more grounded outside the capital, but has far less charaisma. Very tricky indeed.
There is more to running the country than wearing coloured wrist bands and going to electric picnic.
Suffering from fools gladly when water is an issue,all those neglected pipes under the roads and blaming Joe public for years of neglect and penalty points for wasting water , leprechauns might manage the country better .
Leo does not give a thought to the ordinary working person. He’d be worse than his predecessors.
No one cares they’ll be gone come Election Day .. leeches
How many times have we heard that?
I’m just shocked that there’s any FGsupporters…
Thank God.My fears of a Trudeau type Canadian liberal experiment being foisted on my beloved Republic have been abated.
Imagine the thought of a country unifying behind a young intelligent forward thinking leader who doesn’t want to drag the country kicking and screaming back to the dark ages. Horrifying right?!
@Soccer T’s:‘young intelligent forward thinking leader’You mean Leo the hard core neo liberalist Thatcherite who sees privatization as the Holy Grail of economic theory.
I was talking about Trudeau, not these two muppets. They are just younger versions of the same old FG dinosaurs
These two are RECORD breakers in their departments. Both hold the LONGEST WAITING LISTS in HOMELESS&HOSPITAL WAITING numbers. Well done FG policy going well. Recovery anyone?
I think Simon Harris is the wild card , young he maybe but there’s no harm in FG having a young leader they won’t have a young Taoiseach.
Simon Harris is a joke. Inexperienced, gormless looking young lad. Leadership material?……..dont think so!
Coveney obviously studied at the KGB Charm School of Charisma. I am not liking the vibe I get from him.
Sad day for FG when Beavis and Butthead are the two most popular candidates in the party ranks. The combined charisma of a peruvian slug.  Dracula Martin appears almost riveting in comparison.
It does not matter which of them becomes party leader. It does not matter what party/parties are in government. They all play the same game in the end. Independents had a great result in the last election and look how they turned out. The people in this country are nothing more than an irritant to the government.
Not the Brat Harris….
Yawn
Covney is Builderberg and determined to press ahead with renewable energy which does not work.  He will get the job on that account. Gore,  Mary Robbinus and Geldoff are backing him.  Leo is wattery on climate change,  a big no no
when i am counting all the blessings / good things i ever seen i startwith what Dr kumar has done for me , because when the man i have loved for 5 years left me and my baby to be with other ladies i was so frustrated and worthless of anything because i loved him and giving all my heart to my husband william so i could not do anything our daughter Nina was always falling sick because of the absence of his daddy and my husband family never supported me because we where from different religious so my life became nothing in the process of this i lost my job so things became very hard, to cute the story short thanks to my friend Edit from south Africa whom i told my stories and she directed me to this great man Dr kumar ofkumarkomartemple@yahoo.com, and when i contacted this man and told him my story he just spoke with me on the phone and said it will taketwo days for my husband to come back to me and the kid after that he also told me what am to do on my own part i done them all and ones he said he was done and i was surprise when my husband actually called me and started begging pleading forgive and that was how my man came back to me and started good life again and today and happy not just that he is with again am also carrying our second baby , so with all this great things done for me by Dr kumar i promised him that i will not rest until i tell the whole wild world of his goodness . and am using thismedia to tell who so ever that is need of relationship problem or any kind of help should contact him today and i believe he or she will also get good result as just as i have seen thank you once again for your help Dr kumarhis contact details are as follows \kumarkomartemple@yahoo.com,
Now this is the funniest thing I have heard in awhile… He must have a brain the size of a pea .. considering it was only couple weeks ago . He lied on national radio and then continued to lie in dail on the MC cabe issue..Taoiseach rejects Alan Shatter’s claims that he has a ‘casual relationship with the truth’.Because taoiseach you do have a casual relationship with the truth and it’s not funny anymore .
@LITTLEONE: lame duck Taoiseach still telling porkies. FG really are the pits.
@LITTLEONE: And Shatter and his attempts to discredit the garda who stopped him at the checkpoint. That was where his credibility issues started. Perhaps he suffers from a similar complaint. He could have easily killed any speculation that had arisen and even removed he TD are okay to drink and drive rule. Pity really.
“I am not a liar” he lied
Sean o rourke doing his Rte family duty by pussyfooting around Kennys lies.
The gracious thing for Kenny to do would be to apologise to Shatter…Say he made a mistake….In the various heaves against Kenny Shatter was loyal to him…..Was a good minister also much better than his replacement…Good time for FF to call an election while FG is in some turmoil…
O Rourke asked Shatter about his arrogance and he proceeded to lecture him.FG the party of law and order is taking some hammering.A family at war 2 – what lovely people
@Lily Martin: just part of his culture
Shatter is right. signifies all that is wrong w fg right now
Shatter was a highly qualified and competent person for that post unlike his pre-decessor. i mean a min. f justice should have at a very minimum a solid if no exemplary legal background. anything else is a joke tbh
Another lie. The evidence is there. His mea culpas come when he’s caught out. He’ll be wandering around Castlebar looking for some eejit to listen to him and boring them to distraction in the Golf club soon enough.
Shatter had no relationship whatever with humility
Heard that interview with Sean O’Rourke. You would think listening to him that this was the gravest travesty of justice of all time. His sense of self importance seeped out of the radio. The poor precious little snowflake.
Lol ☺FG liars ☺
Oxymoron of the day, FG and the word truth !
Pot and kettle comes to mind.
Didn’t need Alan Shatter to tell us. The very dogs in the street know Edna is a liar.
Enda’s relationship with the truth is a lot more distant than merely “casual”,  it’s positively estranged.He and Shatter are cut from the same cloth, they’re both snides.  Now they’re contradicting each other. Tosspots !
All liars.
Hey journal, there’s a feckin election count in progress in the six counties! Any chance you might cover it?
@Newnob:they voted yesterday and the result will be tomorrow. No news today unless you want them to make it up. Just monotonous counting.
Kenny has a “casual relationship with the truth”. Well colour me surprised who would have thought that. I would have said he has a casual relationship with reality…..
“An extraordinary Taoiseach doing an extraordinary job”.Liars? They’re f**kin delusional
In the absolute sense of the word.. Enda is delusional…he’s having meetings and conversations with people who either weren’t there or who don’t actually exist. He’s like Mayor West from Family Guy without the comedy…
Tell that to the fellah holding the two pints in his hand.
Shatter was wrong Enda ,  you have zero relationship with the truth and I know that for a fact, the man with two pints in his hand told me!
Sergeant McCabe was greviously  wronged. The other whistleblowers were grievously wronged. Compared to this, Alan Shatter only mildly wronged, it at all.
@Tony Daly: Do you not know who I am lol.
Enda’s relationship with the truth is like Bill Clintons relationship w/ Monica Lewinski – inappropriate!
He wasn’t saying this when he was a minister or TD!!
While I think Shatter is an arrogant man I think also that Edna has a cloud over his head no more that the Comissioner he backs. To think he wants to be a roving whatever between europe and the USA when he steps down as taoiseach. He DOES not deserve to be anything but retired in disgrace. After today’s news from Tuam they should all hang their heads in shame but of course it doesn’t effect them in their ivory towers. Shame on Edna
@Mary Murphy: Shame on Enda. Surely that is a shame on Irish society in general? including you
@lavbeer I’ve been a good Christian all my life. Anything that was done to anybody in the name of God was not agreed by me on behalf of me. Ok. So if you want to sit on your throne and act like a pratt go ahead. But you won’t feel any better at the injustice which was done.
“Casual relationship ” more like a full blown detachment from reality, a low life weasel, who has been in benefit of citizens money since before he was born. Just how much he received over the years would be  an exercise in itself, plus the multiple pensions, no wonder he acts like a recent  lottery winner when of camera, despicable individual and Shatter is not far behind him with the rest of the traitors.
Its all the rage in the Knesset.They have a very casual relationship with planning applications.
A new advert campaign… I want to get Shatter… I want to get Enda…
I would safely say Mr. Shatter has been economical with the truth himself in the past
Kettle calling The Pot black comes to mind ?! Which one would you believe ?  I’d guess, Neither !
Why didn’t Shatter point this out when he was Minister for Justice. I’m afraid he no better than Kenny
Kenny is right. He doesn’t have a casual relationship with the truth. Simply because he doesn’t have any relationship with truth. Rich coming from Shatter though. Liars the lot of them.
Shatter get on the plane and deport yourself back to whatever hell hole your from.
If enda told the truth now that would be shocking.
@Christian Sparrow: Does Dundrum have it’s own airport?
Fine Gael wouldn’t recognise the truth if it hit them in the face with a dead fish.
I’m far more interested in the vindication of the reputation of Sergeant McCabe which reputation was viciously maliciously traduced.
Don’t hold your breath. With the assistance of the Irish media that one has been nicely hushed up
Hubris and ego in copious amounts.
@Tony Daly: As we all are, but it is now beyond doubt following the Court of Appeal decision and the O’Higgins report that Shatter was gravely wronged. How Kenny can get away with facing up to this and acknowledging that he greatly mistreated his Minister for Justice beats me.Even people who despise Shatter have to accept that he was done a huge injustice. Kenny simply threw him to the wolves.It is extraordinary that opposition politicians are not pursuing the Taoiseach over this
Every week it seems the taoiseach and fg are apologising to someone.. tells its own story…
Minister Ålan Shatter and Commissioner Callinan have a lot of questions to answer.
You mean Enda Kenny and present attorney general….
Alan Shatter has very serious and far reaching  questions to answer in the Disclosures Tribunal. It would be more sensible to await the outcome of that Public Inquiry.
What good name?
Good name, funniest headline of the day
So the party of corrupted FG now have to forgive and forget a former member of the corrupted party ☺
Enda dumped him for no reason and then made sure he would not be re-elected…..Was much better then present minister was taking on the legal profession…Media really disliked him and he got the wrap for attorney general mistakes…
A corrupt former member…..
To hell with Shatter he’s not as innocent as he likes to suggest.
He is innocent.. report vindictives him
I wasn’t talking about the report, I was just saying in general!http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/dont-you-know-who-i-am-what-shatter-said-to-garda-29300483.html
I presume Mr Guerin will return his fee now that it’s been established he didn’t do his job properly?
I’m not a huge fan of Shatter but he still got shafted by Enda, so Karma ….
The arrogance and ego of this man knows no bounds. He may have been a hard working minister and tried achieve some change but he is still very unlikeable.
@Pete Brady: it was his acting in concert with former Commissioner Callinan against Sergeant McCabe which concerns me.
This is not a vindication but mearly an acceptance that proper procedure was not adhered to but the charges remain.
The brass neck of this man! A typical FG snowflake
Good name? He lost that a long time ago.
Guerin’s report was titled Garda Misconduct, many reputations damaged in that original report, can see $$$$’s for all. Unfortnately Even for Mr. Shatter. In the end O Higgns report found that poor management, lack of supervision, bad practices, but not the corruption which was originally alleged. There was absolute vindication on the misconduct and corruption charges. Countrys a FIASCO of tribunals at mo.
@Albert Brennerman: only based on a very limited and almost desktop like exercise.Corruption is not limited to bribery. It encompasses abuse of power, favouritism, preference to the powerful and blind eye to wrongdoing by some.I suspend judgement for now. Let’s see the outcome of this Tribunal.
@Albert Brennerman:just because Guerin was of the  opinion there was no corruption doesn’t mean it’s true
@Tony Daly: Oh Oh Someone didn’t do their homework,  did anyone read the reports. They are day and night.It encompasses exact specific allegations of corruption named with titles like “the incident of ” that were alleged to have occurred. The findings in each of these exacting incidents were mostly found to be, a lack of supervision (recruitment wave during the period) , poor practice, bad procedure but not the alleged corruption.My point being anyone wronged in that process is now in for $$$$ of public money. It in itself shows the ineptitude of this country, the process to clear it up has now lead to our tax dollar being liable.
@Albert Brennerman: the two Reports had a different purpose. Guerin was a preliminary exercise. O’Higgins largely confirmed and vindicated Sergeant McCabes points and concluded that the complaints, especially on the quashing of the points were fair and accurate.
If he wants his good name back let him start by telling us did enda send a person to Callaghans home and ask him to resign or be sacked
@David Clarke: it is obvious that that is precisely what happened.  It does not mean that Callinan should not have resigned. He got his own points expunged in questionable circumstances.
Agree tony but how can he ask for his good name back when he wont tell the truth, if it’s so important to him you would think he would come clean on everything but you and I know that won’t happen because in a jus world he’d have a number for a while instead of a name
I wouldnt care less what the taoiseach thinks of me. He is a nobody.
Wants his good name vindicated by a lying…..
Since when did he think he had a good name
Is he having a laugh? Typical groomed professional politicians self absorbed in their own image and good name…the day you walked into Dail Eireann Mr Shatter any hope of retaining a  good name would be quite out of the question.
Good name. Lol
@Barry C Mc Govern: I fell off my chair when I saw that…
It won’t be much vindication of his good name when he is among a larger grouping of such a lousy crooked bunch of politicians.
The absence of findings of corruption do not imply that there was no corruption. Quashing penalty points island example of small scale corruption in which those with pull with Garda Superintendents can get their points expunged even when the points are imposed by the Courts.
Justice minister, drink driving and refusing to cooperate with the gardai.
@joe o hare: amongst other issues. The biggest concern is the cooperation between former Minister Shatter and former Commissioner Callinan against Sergeant McCabe and the othervwhistle blowers.
Process and procedural flaws may vitiate conclusions drawn on a preliminary basis but do not necessarily mean that no wrongdoing occurred.The ambit of the O’Higgins Commission was extremely narrow. It does not exonerate AGS or Minister Shatter.I would like to see an open, transparent and public investigation of all the whistle blowing allegations.
Poor Alan…Anyone asked what  Laura was playing with…http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/dont-you-know-who-i-am-what-shatter-said-to-garda-29300483.htmlhttp://www.independent.ie/irish-news/shatters-wife-in-drinkdriving-ban-26709770.html
No TD has a good name, except Michael Fitzmaurice, Catherine Murphy and Roisin Shorthall.
will they all get jobs now and obey the law?
Supposedly it’s the settled communities fault that they have no jobs!
@Boeing Lover: of course it is….the settled man…scourge of the traveller…been on his back for generations flogging him to exghaustion preventing him from getting ahead
He’s some cant alright.
And the winner is
@willypearson:I came here to see who would take the low hanging fruit…
@Titus Groan: if it was gates or valuables we know who would take that
Well no arguments there…
It just shows how much a bunch of amadáin they are in there. They are giving these “travellers” a weapon with which to beat law abiding, tax paying, hard working majority.
Recognising a chaotic way of life that totally relies on taxpayers money to fund it  ? What nonsense ! We are the fools of Europe !!
“In his speech, Taoiseach Enda Kenny said he hopes the move will have a “transformative effect” on relations between Travellers and the wider community”…..is he a magician or just incredibly naive? The only thing that will transform anything is our new ethnic population actually abiding by the law but that’ll never happen especially now that they have a new card to play, the racist card.
Transformers are full of copper.
@Anna Bee: Leinster House must have needed the driveway re-surfaced.
@Aurin O’Brien: the dail bar was closed for the proceeding…”private party” sign hung on door
Enda was looking around to see who wasn’t clapping.
Has a “traveller”ever been convicted by C.A.B?
@Aaron Ramsey: the innocent chap that was buried in the solid gold coffin and 100 grand in jewelery is still posthumously
@Aaron Ramsey: being investigated as are limericks most famous sons…
“Proud day for Ireland”. Please just stop taking Enda you’re nothing more than an embarrassment to this country.
I think that “cant” might be misspelled in the headline.
@David Van-Standen: As the late and great Dermot Morgan said “I have to get that typewriter fixed…”He was saying ‘occult’ is his favorite word for John Bruton – class.
Hope the Guards checked around Dail Eireann to make sure anything worth taking was still there.
@Dave Murray: Denis Naughtons bicycle reported stolen. Last known whereabouts was chained to nice railings at leinster house last night
Travellers groups campaign  for equality and ethnic status, what they really mean is special status, political classes have to comply, otherwise they will be labelled as racist.
Excellent result. Big pay day for the travelling community.
Umm…wasn’t there not a report realised last week or so saying that Travellers are not ethnically different to Irish people? So confused.
@KrusadingKarl: sshhhh…..Endas looking for the mayo vote….election on the horizon you know.
They ask: “Where is our compassion?”How much compassion are we supposed to have? In 2012 84% of the travelling community were listed as unemployed; recession or no recession can you imagine what would happen if the rest of the country took upon this attitude?In late 2014 the South Dublin County Council inexplicably decided to provide prime location accommodation to members of the travelling community. For free. Five months ago the same council opted to give the travelling community €38k to spend as they saw fit.Can you name any other groups given accommodation in these types of locations? The joke is that they’re supposed to be asking for equal treatment, when in fact this is anything but.This daylight robbery on its own wouldn’t be so bad if members of their community weren’t disproportionately involved in actual robbery and general crime.They are, generally, welfare-scamming, inbred thugs who contribute nothing positive to society.
@JoseMacPhisto: you forgot burgalars who tie old men and women to chairs, beat them and rob their life savings.
big parties in mullingar and limerick last night. id say theres a few raw nostrils and sore heads today
I cant believe it.
Yes that`s the point , `we are all Irish`, all equal, all the same, then why does this segment want special status, Irish speakers don`t seek ` ethnic status` ?
Drove by the halting site in Athlone this morning, party still going, lads out doing cartwheels around a bonfire and drinking cans.
I know some decent travelers , honest and hardworking and are socially accepted by every pub and are well know people in the local community for all the right reasons . I know one guy who broke a foot playing indoor soccer and was so peed he couldn’t work and the social gave him zip.Then I know the type that right now are demanding a new house because they don’t like their current free house. I also know travelers who stole land from a local farmer and the law did zip about it.  I even know a group who robbed everything in sight, from copper to oil.I know that settled people have a % of the wrong type as well but lets be honest here , the% is vastly higher in the traveler community .Also Enda is proving he is nothing more than a treasonous tosser suing the auld tactic  of division and deflection.
@Angry Gaming: What I don’t understand that is if you a traveller should not travel ? Is this not part of the culture ? So, if a traveller stops travelling and becomes settled, should he not have his ( or her ) special status removed ? Ah, I’m only joking.
‘I met a good traveller man the other day – he taught me to speak cant in five minutes’Me name is Enda…I’m off to Amereekay.
Kenny the scut has been speaking a form of cant for as long as I’ve been listening to him anyway.  Love the way he sneaked the Roma in there as well – a breed who don’t know the first thing about living within a society, except as a parasite.  Not too far removed from our own travellers in psyche, of course, but geographically not native to Ireland at all.
@Piotrek Król: they will find a genetic strain native to longford in them
Hugo boss /hewya boss. New aftershave now available in all good halting sites.
Congratulations to the Irish travellers being recognised. Hopefully this will be a start of something positive and remind us that travellers are. Important part of our society..but sadly comments on this proves that attitude s must change .we are all irish
@Deirdre Doherty: they were recognised a long time ago and are still recognised from 10 mile away. no one to blame  for the way society views them. They are all on social welfare but have lavish communions, weddings and funerals. please explain how they form an integral part of society? in a  they supply liquidity to those that can’t get credit from a legitimate institution and charge 300% interest on threat of violence kind of way???
@Deirdre Doherty:” Important part of our society.” ??What part, please tell.
@Deirdre Doherty: Everyone is important. The comments reflect the experience of the average Irish person with travellers. If it helps people then why not give them ethnic status. On the other hand they have always had same rights as rest of us. I wish travelers the best. But about ten doors down they tried to take over the house next door as soon as it was vacated. They stole my sisters bike. They could be terrible bullys in school and on the walk. They moved into the car park of the local public health centre. A  nice scene to come across taking you son for his first speech therapy session. I wont go on, settled people can be total bumholes too. But bumholery has a deep hold on traveller culture it seems.
Count me out.
@Deirdre Doherty: Name me one positive thing they do for our society, just one.
They added two snooker balls to the bus I was on two weeks ago … through the windows!
@Deirdre Doherty: Yes we are all Irish – but those of us on the right side of law and order encourage education, not bragging about not being able to read and write.We don’t encourage our daughters to become child brides and incubators.We work all the hours God sends and can’t afford the GP – yet Traveller kids have three grand Communion frocks.  Now we’re not allowed to question where the money comes from for this.Get your head out of where it is currently residing and realise what Enda has just done – sold the rural communities down the swannee, as they are the ones who are vulnerable to the criminality from this group.Oh and I have zero intention of changing my attitude.  They – and you as a supporter – should do though and realise that we see through them, and their idiot cheerleaders in Pavee Point.
@Buster VL: Crime stats ????
@Deirdre Doherty: If we are all Irish, then why the ethnic bull ? Kerrymen are a breed apart but they don’t on about being recognised as separate ethnic group. I bet if I bothered to trace my roots and dna, I could claim to be part of an ethnic minority. I have a culture uniquely my own, so why can’t I get a few grants and dig outs ? Ah, only joking again ( except the bit about Kerrymen ).
But they used to travel from town to town and now they don’t. Halting sights are permanent. They aren’t travellers they’re Halters.
Not one politician man enough to call a spade a spade. They all do the dance like Gerry Adams who was emotional when the Travellers were being moved in Dundalk. Enda has lost his little remaining credibility in my book !
…because living in a caravan makes you ethnically different.
@Scundered: or a council house
@Scundered: no but inbreding amongst your own for generations does. gene pool stays the same
Speaks cant, I’m sure that’s a misspelling, I’m sure there’s a U missing. Absolutely shocking these deluded doo gooders have pushed for this absurd recognition, perhaps there not exposed to the daily carry on of this charming section of society. I wondered could me and my family seek ethnic recognition because it’s seems that all that is required along with living in a caravan, on the side of the road and be able to say “any chance of a few Bob boss”. Bizzare stuff and I can see the courts being clogged up with cases dealing with alledged discrimination. I for one won’t be giving any recognition apart from that of complete disgust at this outrageous decision.
Innocent fool that lad
@Keiko: he is from mayo after all
The new Mincéir for Traveller Affairs is Mr. Borradh Táileasc TD.
A lot of them in there are probably related to them. Don’t they talk can’t in there every day?
Inda brings it to a new low. Di ya wan ta buy a gattte  boss.
Media very quiet about the closed bar  explain FG
@John Hartigan: there was a private party.
@Michael Lynch: Here is some cant for you…”hows it going boss them roof tiles is actually ten grand not a 100 euro like id said…and the tarmacing will be another five grand per metre.
It’s a great day for all Travellers!
A borradh táileasc for the mincéir’ What… mincers???
Both sides do it to themselves, the rest is a bad joke.
How long has it been since these polls accurately predicted anything?
Both Fianna fail and fine Gael should be disbanded for treason of this country, they have broke this country through corruption,lying,mismanagement. Why should any ever vote for these judas goats again?.
Funny old poll… Who was polled … Between the ages of 18…The survey was carried out on Monday and Tuesday of last week and sampled 1,200 people between the ages of 18. …
Hardly a broad poll is it????
@Sam: Because a majority, 57%, believe the alternative is worse.
@P.J. Nolan: pity as the “alternative” never fuked up the country
Both up to their necks in shite
Our “independence” in the Republic is largely a failure. All we’ve achieved was to swap a British ruling capitalist class for an Irish one who have always protected the interests of domestic and international capital as the expense of the majority. As a result we’ve had a century of poverty, mass unemployment and emigration, state and religious repression, while the pampered elite in business, politics, media, religion and the law viciously protected the status quo which serves them so well. And ordinary person who votes for FF, FG , Labour or bogus Indpendents is complicit in their own exploitation.
@Dan: Worked ok with Hitler lol.
In other words, media say , we gotta vote FF or Fg like the last near 100 years … Really, our problems will go away if we just keep swapping them around ….
We currently have both in power and must have the worse ministers appointed possible to transport, health, environment and justice
It won’t be long now until Fine Gael and Fianna Fail merge together as it’s the only way that they can cling onto power and keep eating at the trough.
@Willy Malone: what’s the alternative? seriously though all jokes aside.
So true. Been saying this to people for a while but no one else sees the potential in Fine Fine!
@Willy Malone, my sentiments exactly, let’s pass legislation, banning all other parties and Independents, and continue to kid ourselves that these two parties can lead us and blame each other’s failings as to why their tenureship is failing
They should merge and rename themselves the clusterfvck alliance party.
@Willy Malone: We have to vote, its our duty, even if all the candidates are donkeys, we must vote, its our duty!
@tom:Worst minister possible is all a matter of perspective. If you’re FG, or indeed if you are ideologically pro-privatisation and small government, Shane Ross is the best possible minister for transport. He’s drawing a hard line.Just like they gave social protection to Labour when cuts and pressure were inevitable, so too did they give transport to a economically liberal independent alliance member when dark industrial unrest clouds were clearly visible on the horizon.Personally I think he’s childish, there was a ridiculous moment on prime time a month ago when he was sitting at a different table, and interviewed separately, to Dermot O’Leary (NBRU) so that he wasn’t seen to be engaging. But if you’re FG, his obstinate posturing is exactly what you need to draw a line in the sand. There will be a cabinet reshuffle (if the government survives FF’s sabre rattling) within a few months and everyone will be able to save face when a new minister instigates the climbdown.
There should be an option on the ballot “none of the above”. It would mean people could vote but also send a strong message
Seriously, the alternative is a different policy, one which prioritises the needs of the people of this country over the needs and greed of the corporations and wealthy elite. It’s not just the politicians, even if you handpicked the most experienced people to do the job, if they keep following the same policies we will be in the same mess. And they have us all scared to risk a change but we must. We keep voting in those who stand essentially for the same policies so what else do we expect? FF or FG or Labour, same approach as the Tories in UK. Privatise everything, drive wages down, give people less to spend (but not those at the top end like the CEOs) then say we all have to pay more, tighten our belts, and suck up to foreign businesses to give us jobs because we are in a recession. Only a socialist approach has the capacity to address this because it starts from a fundamentally different perspective.
You could have a bunch of school children running the country and the place couldn’t be ran as bad.
@Noirin Kavanagh:The alternative that ‘puts people first’ (i.e. those in the struggling bracket) pretends that it can do so by taxing business and top earners only. Modest mid-high income earners don’t believe this typically, and believe that more than likely the heavy lifting will be borne by what Michael Noonan classifies as a ‘high earner’ (anyone over 70k) or by what Sinn Fein an others classify as a ‘high earning household’ (any household with a combined income over 100k).Those in those brackets often would rather that money is invested in education leg ups and training programmes, extensions of free education etc, rather than subsidising lower paying jobs and/or increases to welfare. A person who fundamentally believes that increased welfare isn’t addressing inequality is unlikely to vote for a larger share of what they earn to be pumped into that – such a person is likely to prefer that people are equipped with the skills and education to compete for better paying jobs.Therefore, when a middle-high income earner assesses the policies of relevant parties, and does not see a coherent plan for a more equal society, they are likely to vote for parties that acknowledge their contribution and large tax bills, instead of those who would means test what meager benefits/returns they get back from the system.
@Noirin Kavanagh:I always laugh Noirin when I see the term “wealthy elite”. The super high earners will never pay high taxes, because they can and will leave, its the middle income earners that have to cough up. Hard left commenters always tell us “tax the rich”. Not if they are not here.
@Rónán, I would not suggest that there are simple answers to our many problems but it is clear that everything that has been done in recent times has failed to address our underlying problems. This is because the direction is piecemeal and uncoordinated. In one instance we have the dole while on the other we give tax breaks to corporations which do not always bring in jobs and often the jobs they do bring in are low paying or have poor working conditions. When the squeeze comes, as in the capitalist boom bust system it must, it is the poorest that relatively speaking pay most. The problem is a lack of a coherent vision which would inform decision making. So if we begin by saying everyone in our country has a right to a reasonable standard of living, excellent health care and full access to education as far as their will and ability can bring them, and thus value the contribution of everyone, artists, entrepreneurs, parents, road sweepers, etc. Then we consider that the economy involves the active participation of everyone to work. Businesses need customers and customers must have spending power. (This is why austerity will never work because you destroy small businesses leaving the corporations to come in and sweep up until it suits them to go elsewhere, by which time there is little left of gheall lo al economy). So if the policy at the beginning recognises that the goal is maximum benefit to maximum people the decisions made would be very different to those we have seen. And yes, I do think the left is the only alternative and they deserve a chance. If fear keeps the high middle from changing their voting pattern they need to consider what a life without exorbitant health insurance and saving for educating their children would look like.
P.J., if they don’t want to pay their fair share they are no advantage to us so I don’t care where they go, but if we were educated in the options we have we would then refuse to support the businesses the wealthy own. They may have wealth and the power and influence that comes from that but it is only because we support their enterprises. We have choices, and much more power than we know.
@Noirin Kavanagh:No advantage?Ok so let’s get rid of all those wealthy people/companies that provide hundreds of thousands of jobs, sure who needs them why don’t we give everyone a few acres and let them grow spuds.
Apple.. 13 billion.. Enough said..
Did I say that PJ Nolan? If you read my post again you will note that I said if the don’t pay their fair share they are no advantage to us. Apple for instance. Why should we be a tax haven to one of the world’s wealthiest corporations? This is both morally wrong and incredibly stupid. If a company moves here, offers quality employment with appropriate pay then I never said they were no advantage because they clearly could be. But we need to set a standard for worker’s value and standard of living to ensure our citizens are not exploited. No fixed hour contracts for example, or unpaid overtime come to mind.
@tom: It is not based on talent, if it was then Germany wouldn’t have done 8 of our budgets then?
Note to Michael Martin: We have not forgotten your stewardship of the HSE , how your party bankrupted the country and your dealings with Owen o Callaghan .Enda and yourself need to take a hike .
Dont forget Gerry too. We need a clear out of all the political fossils.
@Jimmy jones: Apparently we have, if the polls are anything to go by.
@Jimmy jones: Doesn’t really matter if you haven’t forgotten. 29% of people polled don’t care about their past. At their lowest ebb, one in five voters were still willing to back them.And, be honest here, were you a FF voter before that?I see these “Enda, we haven’t forgotten” “Micheal, we haven’t forgotten” “Gerry, we haven’t forgotten” comments here all the time, but I can’t help thinking what they mean is “I’ve never voted for you, and here’s why” which is no skin really of Enda/Micheal/Gerry’s nose.All electioneering targets a soft middle and a core vote. The water charges campaign was an excellent targetting of the soft middle on a relatively minor (albeit principled) issue.It’s no coincidence that FF is now targetting the soft middle by pressing FG on water. The money isn’t there to buy the hard middle (public sector workers)
None of the above option, anyone.
Looks like we’ve answered the question on how long the electorates memory is
@Paul Horgan: I think their memories are fine.It’s just a case of who shafted us most recently, and who among the alternatives are guaranteed to shaft us in future.
@Paul Horgan:How anybody can vote for Pinocchio, 5k Martin, Grace Noonan and Injustice Fitzgerald is beyond me.I’m voting for the Honest Truth Whistleblowers Party.
So they both have some neck then
I’d like to wring their neck and neck
Neck and neck, or more aptly, cheek to cheek.
Between the ages of 18?
@Conrad Shields:yep spotted that Conrad, thats a broad spectrum of the electorate all right
I assume that is inclusive.
turd sandwich and giant douche
The politics of failure have failed…
Poll load of bollix!
Can’t be neck and neck water is the elephant in room Simon.
Interesting stuff. If I was a FF strategist I’d be advising them to pull the plug on the water issue. Lets see coveney wag his finger and threaten us with Europe in the middle a a leadership contest with an election around the corner.Nice to see th elargest party on the left increase above the margin of error for a second poll as well. Hopefully the only poll that counts isn’t too far away.
No sign of AAA
Must be due a ‘Gerry ate my hamster’ story soon. SF’s poll numbers are too healthy.. The government stenographers that pass themselves as journalists in this country must be digging deep to find something..
As a nation, we have serious learning disabilities.
@Paul Culligan: As a nation we have serious lack of choice!
That too Jim
We absolutely do have choices. USA and the UK have a serious lack of choices. Fortunately we do. Depending on your constituency, you will have a far-right Renua candidate. At least one candidate from right wing Fine Gael. At least one candidate from right wing Fianna Fail. A centrist Labour candidate. A centre left, Social Democrat candidate, a centre left green party candidate. At least one left wing Sinn Fein candidate,a far left AAA/PBP candidate ad a smattering of smaller party and independent candidates. The problem in this country is that people are not educated/haven’t educated themselves as to what each of these parties stand for and how they would run society. People, more often than not, vote against their interests. If you go policy by policy most people are centre left. Polls to this affect have been taken all over the western world and the same results are seen. Therefore, the majority of people should vote for social democrat/green. These two parties are never more than 8% combined however. They will not grow if people don’t give them a chance. Your premise that we have a lack of choice is flawed and is only a perception of who, you believe, can be in power.
Stephen Nolan, if you put all the left together you have a chance of change, the kind that makes a difference in reality not just on paper or media propaganda. You’re right, there is a choice, though not in all constituencies, and we lack the education which would enable us to understand the choices. Where in school did we learn about the different economic systems we have and how they impact the workforce? Or how the monetary system actually works? How many leaving cert students could tell you the difference between the neoliberal capitalist system which is currently in vogue and destroying the planet, and a democratic socialist system?
Its like selling water for them! :D
Does anyone care?
as a nation of gombeen men and women we have learned nothing from our past mistakes…
I find it as surprising and depressing in equal measure that 57% of voters in this country would go with the either party.  Both have shown their corrupt colours over the last decade.  What happened to those voters who said “Never again”.
The reason we havent seen a snap election because it would mean Micheal Martian would have to concede his leadership, the slow bike race is making everone feel sick at this stage, John Mc Guinness new leader of ff, and the chernobyl effect on Fg into the dregs with labour,
I know what I’d like to do with their necks..
Wonderful people the Irish. Two parties who have kept this country. One almost destroyed it and the other continued the treatment. You deserve to be second raters forever.
Another con!
Well, at least this means we’re unlikely to have an election.
Opinion Poll finds 82% of those polled are absolute morons. That bodes well for the future so !!!
D4 types and culchies surely are the only people who vote for these corrupt parasites no normal person could ever vote for them, radical change is needed
Neck and neck cheek to cheek unfortunately we pass between the both of them.
Neck and neck cheek to cheek unfortunately we are stuck between the two
Opinion Sminion.Bah humbug.
The best this contry can produce is 3 gobs…es… And 2 are neck and neck?
Pity it is not in a guillotine…
Issue them all with a PPS number & get them paying tax‬ and we’ll see how appreciative they are about being recognised as part of society
What absolute nonsense ! Educate your kids, teach them to respect others and as the Pope told Travellers and Roma, “Obey The Law”  Normal people have been doing this for generations so what’s the problem ?
And surnames instead of multiple first names. John’s Patrick. Michaels Daniel, Peters Derek
Craig David
Yeah
Did the Taoiseach ask Robbie about the two/three new housing estates built in rathkeale over the last year? And why if they all got new houses in “their spiritual home” , why are they refusing to live in them houses. And they are beautiful houses. Drive ways all full of caravans, nobody is allowed to live in the houses. Because they’re “travelling “. Nonsense carry on. The Taoiseach should be embarrassed right now.
@jenni: Did he ask Robbie if travellers vote…???
@DubKid: would love to know who are the 18 liberal left wing nut jobs that gave your comment thumbs down
@12345: You know- that naming system you are talking about i.e. John’s Patrick etc., is a Gaelic system. In fact they still use it in the Gaeltacht where you hear names like Seán Phádraig Mhichil or Séamas Sheán Dhómhnaill. Its a traditional naming system that goes back before the Normans and most of Ireland used it until surnames as a concept was adopted from Europe.
“Today, a grievous wrong has begun to be righted” what grevious wrong, were they ever locked up in concentration camps or something? No, the authorities have tiptoed around them for decades and allowed to rob the country blind and intimidate everyone who isn’t in their extended family.
Can the taoiseach recognise where the gang of ethnic minorities put my dad’s trailer? Nah, didn’t think so
They’ve a thing about stealing trailers, haven’t they?
@Rusty Nuts:@Rusty Nuts:did all 40,000 Travellers steal the trailer?
my old dad lives on his own and on a number of occassions had a “visit” from travellers-he has a bunch of cars etc. well they were threatening but he had a machete and dared them to attack. he literally told them he’d cut them from their navel to their throat. thank God they left. but they did try to intimidate a 73 year old man.
@Donncha Foley:I think one stole it, and 39,999 would not report him/her to the police
Gregory you Dad was lucky, that poor 90 year old man in Waterford wasn’t as fortunate when they came calling.
he was Jane. But they knew my Dad would attack them and hurt them. He didnt care. I really admire him, he’s a tough nut. If i was there at the time I would have gone for them too and f the consequences
Good for him Gregory.
thanks Jane. really nice of you to say so. i was so angry about that, him being old and alone etc. good night!
@Donncha Foley: no,but they probably all know where it is !!
Dunno, they all look the same
That speech is a lot of wispy nonsense! Why should ‘Robbie’s head lift up proudly because he’s of a separate ethnicity? How would that help if his life was shite anyway? Absurd
@stephen kavanagh: I welcome Ireland’s reaffirmation of its progressive liberal values. It was past time that the travelling community, long oppressed and misunderstood, was recognised as a separate race, thus entitling them to all the hate speech and other protections that come with it.
Al, misunderstood? There’s one thing Travellers aren’t and that’s misunderstood.
@Dave Murray: Suspicion of travellers is unfortunately one of the last remaining barriers in our journey towards a truly multicultural post-racial society.I suspect that as more schools are freed from catholic church rule and we begin to teach our children tolerance towards difference (mixed races, multiple and no gender identifications) we will see these attitudes disappear more and more.
@Al Ca: I’ve seen scientific papers which suggest that the travelling community can trace its origins back to the first Scottish settlers in Ireland. So in a way it is we who are trespassing on their lands, in a a similar way to how the Native Americans were treated.Makes you think.
@Al Ca: “Suspicion of travellers” really suspicion you call it, I call it a reaction to the real life experience of being robbed by them.
Don’t bother answering the troll
0.6%: or 29,573: The percentage of Irish population who are Travellers. This is a 32% increase since 2006. 50%: The percentage of Travellers in Ireland who die before the age of 39. 7/10 die before reaching 59 years of age. 10%: The percentage of Traveller children who die before the age of two, compared to 1% in general population. 5%: The percentage of Longford population who are Travellers. 9.5%: The percentage of all social housing in Longford that is allocated to Travellers. 22: The average age of a Traveller in Ireland, compared to 36 for general population. 27%: The percentage of Traveller women have had five or more children, compared to 2.6% of general population. 1%: The percentage of Travellers in Ireland who have completed Third Level education in 2011, compared to 30% of the general population. 17.7%: The percentage of Travellers with no formal education, compared to 1.4% of the general population. 84%: Unemployment rate of Travellers in Ireland. 86.6% of Men and 81.2% of Women. The rate was 75% during the boom. 40%: The percentage of Irish Prisoners in England and Wales from a Traveller background. 18%: The percentage of inmates aged 18-24, sampled in a drugs report in Irish Prisons, who are Travellers. 19%: The percentage of Traveller specific Accommodation Sites in Ireland which are unused. 28%: The percentage of Dublin City Council Traveller houses/halting bays destroyed since 2005. €5 million: The amount spent in 2011 and 2012 dealing with abandoned horses. 15%: The percentage of physical or sexual assault victims who are Travellers. 12/1000: Infant mortality rate among Travellers, four times the general population. 2.2%: The percentage of Traveller mothers who breast feed, compared to 50% of the general population. 40%:The percentage of Traveller marriages that are between first Cousins. 49%:The percentage of admissions to Women’s Refuges who are Travellers. 15%: The percentage of gunshot injuries at one Dublin hospital who were Travellers. 79%: The percentage of forced labour/paving crimes (against UK citizens) perpetrated by UK Travellers. 33.4%: The percentage of Travellers under the age of 29 who are Married, compared to 8.2% of the general population. 11.4%: The percentage of Travellers who are Separated, compared to 5.5% of the general population. 28%: The percentage increase of Gypsy Caravans in England between 2006 and 2015. 65%: The percentage of Pipe Bombs in circulation which have been manufactured by Traveller Gangs. 53%: The percentage of Traveller adults who smoke. 13%: The percentage of Traveller children who finish Secondary School, compared to 92% of the general population. 4.4%: The percentage of Child Protection Cases involving Travellers. 11%: The percentage of UK youth prison inmates that are Gypsy/Romany/Traveller. 84%: The percentage of Travellers that live in Houses.
@Seamus Wall: We refuse them a Leaving Cert education, we refuse to provide them basic housing, we provide them no job opportunities. If this sounds familiar it’s exactly how the Irish were treated for 800 years.History will remember us in the same way we remember the British. It makes me weep.
When did we refuse them a leaving cert education?
They are not refused any education.
@Al: you make them sound like little pets we have to care for. Why do WE have to provide for THEM. Can they not help themselves, or would that require too great a change to their “valuable” culture? The soft bigotry of low expectations.
@ James: so don’t all those statistics just reinforce the fact that their way of life doesn’t work and giving them a separate ethnic status is exactly what they don’t need and perhaps some kind of integration into the rest of society may be the beginning of some kind of solution to the mess that they are
@Niall O D: If travellers aren’t refused a leaving cert then why do so few have one? Magic? Coincidence?
Niall, I wasn’t using those stats to defend them. There’s some absolutely terrifying stats there in relation to domestic violence, crime, terrorist related activities and other things. The pipe bomb statistic alone put them in the same league as radical Muslims. The other societal related stats such as life span are as a direct result of the lifestyle they CHOOSE to live. I’d say a politician putting forward ideas such as outlawing temporary residences on public land or cross referencing new car registrations against social welfare payments would go far.
There is a certain irony in demanding equality on one hand and recognition for being different on the other.
WTF
We haven’t refused them anything. .they refuse their kids an education. .they choose to live in mobile homes …one thing about travellers is that they make all their own choices .
g’won then post your link to some tabloid muck where some individual family has been discriminated against by a school by their upstanding straight A student who was going to go on and cure cancer whilst conducting research in a space station on Mars.a large proportion don’t even attend primary on a regular basis school even though every stop is pulled out for them.
Because their parents won’t let them go to school .. they’re not bothered ..
@Al Ca: they the new irish ie travellers refuse to get educated and send their kids to school its easier to go on  a rampage though ireland and europe by conning people into giving them money tax free.
James, can I nominate you as statistician of the year?
I wasn’t using the stats to defend them. There’s some terrifying numbers there…ALL of which is due to lifestyle choice.
@James: All of which is due to discrimination.
@ Al Ca maybe because the parents don’t consider a formal education as part of their culture, they can if they want, they choose not to. I highly doubt you even believe the Sh×t you write. You just like to stir.
Really? Destroying halting sites and building pipe bombs is due to discrimination? Sure aren’t they really the Irish version of Palestinians…
@Al Ca: With all due respect. That is utter and complete nonsense. If you want to experience traveler culture then I suggest you go to Rathkeale around Christmas or even at any time of the year. I was there yesterday evening and it wasn’t a pretty sight. A once fine town ruined.
@ William…https://www.reddit.com/r/travellers/comments/237ngq/traveller_statistics/Granted some are slightly out of date but all have links to sources. Ironically most articles were written with a pro traveler stance. As of today though it should be easier to keep stats.
Make you think nothing they aren’t Scottish go read the right papers, Their origin is genetically Irish. … The study provided evidence that Irish Travellers are a distinct Irish ethnic minority, who separated from the settled Irish community at least 1000 years ago; They concluded that: “The fact that Q188R is the sole mutant allele among the Travellers as compared to the non-Traveller group may be the result of a founder effect in the isolation of a small group of the Irish population from their peers as founders of the Traveller sub-population. This would favour the second, endogenous, hypothesis of Traveller origins.” More specifically, they found that Q188R was found in 100% of Traveller samples, and in 89% of other Irish samples, indicating that the Traveller group was typical of the larger Irish indigenous population.[27]
anyone interested in a rhino horn? i know they’re nearly extinct but still
al ca sf going out on a big limb here…less votes for sf methinks
I think you’ll find that the % of travellers without a leaving very could well be women. I knew many a traveller girl growing up (who I was good friends with) disappear from school when they got a certain age coz they were not allowed come back to school, and from what I know from my local school the struggle to get girls family’s to allow them continue their education is a battle that is still being fought by the schools. I don’t know a hell of a lot of facts about things, but that much I know from experience. No one but themselves deny them an education so get back in your soap box
sounds about right michelle
@Al Ca:oh Al – you’ve clearly lost it. Not only were they NOT denied an education, we taxpayers (I will exclude most of the travellers from that group) spend a lot trying to change their attitude and keep their kids in school. Perhaps you should stop by the next halting site you see and ask them why they feel they are oppressed by society for not contributing to it in any normal manner. (Stealing other people’s stuff isn’t contributing though so doesn’t count)Weep on.
They take up a job robbing and thieving while the rest of us are in learning our languages
Does this allow them to continue to park in the middle of the road while the rest of us are civilised
you should see the impressive uk reg cars and jeeps in Rathkeale. very impressive machines…
Finally Fine Gael finds common ground with AAA and PBP…and SF…
i know some of u speak german so watch our ethnic travellers tear up Deutschland last summer…as the reporter says the have Grosse Autos. cool!https://youtu.be/mv95cAjDA2U
Al CaWhat a load of rubbish. For many years I worked for a company where workmen went to their machines at 6am. to find on a regular basis that they had been drained of diesel. These workers were on a pay by results schemes so they suffered loss of wages until the machines were refuelled which took some time because of locating. Everyone knew who was doing it but very few prosecutions took place. You may ask why, it was not easy to get a conviction because of lies, so many people with the same names, no fixed addresses, fuel moved quickly, lots of outlets for the fuel. The law got disillusioned from the lack progress so lost interest and the thieves were allowed to carry on. In other words they were too much trouble and lots of paperwork to catch. Customs officials could have played a part as this marked fuel was used in road vehicles but they had bigger fish to fry. The loss of fuel was bad enough but the loss machine hours ,wages and the distribution was hard to take. So Al Ca don’t say that I don’t know what I am talking about so would you ever eff off.
Sorry, spell check.Location,disruption.
A proud day. It means that they can’t be refused social welfare payments now on the grounds of ethnicity.
@Al Ca: what tablets are you on ??
Because most of them aren’t interested
Tax clearance cert boss ?
All I want is someone to tell ” the TRUTH about travellers” once and for all, not these programs that say ,oh look at these poor people their so hard done by, while young paddy Joe is robbing your wallet
I’m bettin’ a dozen comments before the call comes in to close shop.
Again!! I wont give my opinions on travellers, that might keep the shop open a little while longer.
Surprised they didn’t close it to be honest!! But they’re all up there in that snake pit they call the Dáil high fiving and back slapping thinking they’re gods gift again because of this while a poor mother is walking from Cork to Dublin for a SECOND time, trying to put pressure on the minister for health that looks like he’s barely out of leaving cert to sign the legislation to legalise the use of cannabis (a completely harmless and extremely useful drug) for the treatment her 7y/o daughter so desperately needs. They are a shameless bunch, talking about recovery and they can’t help a little girl recover some bit of normality to hers. It makes me sick with anger!
So what does it actually mean?
They get special funding from the EU.
Probably won’t start acting as responsible citizens though….
They all get jobs and start contributing to society-ya rite -u wish.
Because travellers self esteem, that’s what’s really important here, not that they use the roads of Ireland as their own private sulky race tracks, not that they don’t know what it’s like to pay any form of tax or insurance or that they’re involved in significant levels of burglaries. Nope, privilege without responsibility for less than 1% of our population, that’s what’s important.
They will obey the laws of the land like the rest of us, pay taxes due to the state and so on, as I was writing this the news was on and it about their entitlements, take,take,take, Nothing changes. What about give, give,give, yes give them all an identity cards. That would be a shocker.
So all our fear of being robbed, hammered & hating the thought of them living in our area was a dose of paranoia? well that’ a big relief I must host a party & invite a dozen of them around for a few drinks.  We can trust them with alcohol you know, Publicans, who really are struggling have been banning them for no reason.  I’m sure the State will happily pick up the tab in the event of any isolated assaults, robbery, terrorisng of the elderly & Social Welfare scams.
What a load of PC nonsense
Well the 2 travellers who tried to break into my sisters house while we were away burying her son can hang their heads in shame
@Jonathan O’Keeffe: they shall now carry their heads high – burglary is an art form and should be protected from criticism as an expression of free speech from an oppressed people crying out for help.
anyone interested, 1 rhino horn left and an as new honda power washer
Let’s hope they start behaving like a normal race off people now . But me thinks different.
It’s a shame Ends wasn’t as concerned about the ordinary, hard working, tax paying people as he is about this shower. It’s a dark day for this country.
This is Endas good buy gift to the Irish people
@Eamonn Atyea: With the departing phrase” There’s never the road you go ,that you don’t meet one”
I did not know that travellers were a different and separate ethnicity. I though that they were white Irish Roman Catholics, indigenous and full citizens of Ireland.Now that Travellers are deemed to be different, do we need to treat them differently?
unfortunately we do. starting with a visa entry program-aussie style
I’d say Vincent Brown will cover this tonight , Twitter should be interesting !
@james comiskey: Yeap, Travellers can do wrong in Vincent’s eyes no matter what counter argument is brought up its shouted down. I like Vincents Brown but he has his head in the ground regarding alot of Travellers.
i can’t stand Vincent Browne. he’s a bluffer
To have a separate ethnicity do you have to have a different DNA profile from the other ethnicities, is that the proof the govt is working off or is this forensic evidence not being used to authenticate traveller ethnicity…
Can’t use that as proof Cally as a recent DNA study found that travellers are genetically irish, in fact, they are probably more Irish than most of us here as they confine their reproduction to the same limited gene pool. In a sense this has almost created a new devolved ethnicity within Irish people completely devoid of outside genes which any scientist will tell you is not a good thing. I’ve been careful to remain logical in my comments here, regardless, I’m sure it will be removed.
@cally. Ethnicity is a social construct, not a biological one. DNA has nothing to do with it.
Comments closed in 3… 2… 1…
Extra time surely
Justice for the Culchies!! (We may as well start the campaign for recognition of Culchie ethnicity today)
It’s probably the culchies who’ve suffered most at the hands of our newest ethnic minority…not saying the city boys don’t but the culchies are more vulnerable.
They can use this to get themselves off the hook now , it used to be the discrimination card . Maybe they’ll act like normal people now and not the savages they used to be !!! Wonder can they still Collect the dole in a couple of different towns under this new title !! I see motormouth Collins spouting shite about respect these people deserve, hes very quiet when these savages are breaking the law as they usually do
friend of mine renting a house had travellers move in next door. made his life hell. had to move out. then they bought the house @knockdown price (who wants a pile of cold agressive barking dogs next door, traffic all night, parking in front garden, shouting and screaming etc). turns out same guy bought 5 other houses for cash in same estate where prices dropped by 40%…
Earn respect like the other race in this country. The taxpayer.
@Seamus McSpud:I’m a taxpayer and I approve Spud’s message
drugs is the new thing i hear…
Rich Irish Travellers (not for kids Hummer Jeeps feature in this DocuMovie/Rathkealehttps://youtu.be/iGuGhtfEkaE
@gregory. How do you know they were travellers?
the woman in the photo with the banner saying “Justice for Travellers”, for a bit of balance she could just as easily be holding a “Justice for the Victims of Travellers” in the other hand as it’s just as relevant.
What are the defining and distinctive characteristic features of traveller culture?
Language, music amd tradition
@Tony Daly: Tax Avoidance, robbery, mayhem to name but a few….
@David Hanks: please describe these three aspects and demonstrate how they are separate and different from mainstream Irish culture.Are there are negative characteristics of Traveller culture?Are there any positive characteristics of Traveller culture?
physical violence. verbal abuse. threatening behaviour. social welfare and tax fraud. theft.
Some of these comments are really unfair,98% of travellers give the rest of them a bad name.
Edna your legacy is through the roof. When can the taxpayer be declared an ethnic minority never mind the justice we expect?. Tin hat.
One wonders how long the it will take for our newest ethnic grouping in this great Isle to lodge a big claim for cash from rest of us tax paying. law abiding . public for some shi@e or another
@Owen Kirwan- I’m waiting for Kenny to setup the “Traveller Redress Board” and give them all a fat payout.
The liberal luvvies who will never have first hand experience of the negative aspects of traveller culture will applaud this measure.
listening to Brid Smith an total lefty idiot, she just made a statement that we the settled people have to stop discriminating against travellers well brid smith when they start paying tax, robbing, bringing old people to ATMs to scam them wrecking parks, carparks , private property etc. i have rights as a tax payer and settled person but no from tonight i am told i am different now just go to work and pay tax for traveller wasters. i am sick of the left in this country they live in a fluffy land
Are you blaming the left for a right wing conservative governments decision?
@Richard Sweeney: the greens are now up talking about we are all travellers what a load of crap, yes the left want open borders unfortunately there is not one politician with the balls to remind the travellers they have responsibilities an to clean up there act, all the speakers where from the left, kenny is doing this to give the fingers to the real tax payers of this country while the wasters will still get the dole
What would the bould Enda call them if a gang of them arrived at his house and wanted to charge €7000 for a few shovels of tarmac and threaten to burn down his house if he didn’t comply?
right on stephen. brid is one of those aaa pbp lunatics. they are seeking to have everyone on the dole, travellers, and tens of thousands from the middle east. lots of lunatics in modern day ireland especially on the left
How pray tell, is this recognition going to stop travellers being marginalized? How does that work in reality? Surely if the robbing, fighting, anti social behaviour, bad language, dirt etc stop, there would be a better chance?
Paul/TheJournal closed the comments in last night’s article on this subject, I wonder if he will do the same this evening?
It’s maddening to see how self-important politicians think of themselves. “historic and symbolic”, “As Taoiseach I wish to formally recogbise…” But when you’re in need of inanities, theirs no better man than our Enda…
Yet again the so called party of law and order shows its disdain for real justice, rewarding a group of criminals to the detriment of the hard working tax paying citizens of Ireland.   Election in a  few weeks another nail in the FG coffin.
A minority for sure.Go ask the Gardai who have to regularly try enter a certain site on Kylemore road. Balaclavas & armed but yet still couldn’t reclaim our stolen property. Week in week out same old story while they lavish surrounded by their fine new Italian marble center pieces & compare their new cars.The only respect they’ll ever get from me is what they deserve = sweet f all.Scurge of society end of
Nice head stones though. Certainly i can’t afford them.
That’s how the Trumps of the world get into power. The real opinions and feelings of the people are no longer listened to and told they are wrong and that you can’t say what you want to say. Silence the people and you reap what you sew. Oh I’m not talking about this article by the way
Obviously this is being done for more goodies. In fairness though, they all kind of look the same.
@John III Sobieski: “removes mosques “
Relations usually do…
I wish Enda Kenny in his capacity of Taoiseach would have said we all deserve to be treated equally in this country of ours, I have to presume that is already in our Constitution.
So a few white Irish people are now an ethnic group, in a country with a majority of white Irish people?Argh
I know we had water charges, bank bailout, USC, and pension levy in recent history, but this. HOW OUT OF TOUCH WITH THE LARGE MAJORITY OF THE ELECTORATE ARE THESE POLITICIANS?Anyway, congrats to the travelers. I hope they have a night celebrating. Does that still include things like burning caravans then having the council deliver a new one the next morning paid by the working taxpayer, i.e you and me?If Ireland was populated by 100% travelers, what would our country look like? Weekly royal rumbles with slash hooks at the local grace yard? 98% unemployment? Rampant crime? Kids not being sent to school, sorry, I forgot, the teachers dont show up for work in this fantasy land!!!
Great news! Does this mean the boulders will be taken away from the entrances to every lakeside in the country so tourists can park their campers.
Comments will be turned off shortly. Not allowed to express your views
Stop robbing people and pay your taxes like everyone else…jesus kenny you’re a fool…
” Life in Knackeragua ” now playing at your local cinema. Cert X adults only  for scenes of violence,  drunkeness and robbery.
I give up!
Fvck right off. Nonsense!
It was difficult for the guards before, can you imagine what its going to be like now. Just wait for their 5 year olds to start racing sulky’s down the M50 and the guards powerless to intervene.
LOL! really
All those travellers outside Dail eireann..let’s hope their jobs gave them the day off..oh wait…. .
Came for the article, stayed for the comments
Thank god for that…. about time the Irish cleared up the slur on their reputation caused by those foreigners.
@Cez Miname:  travellers are irish people
And the rest of us can walk with our heads up.Great!
Great another card they can play when they rob old people and treat others like crap ffs
Will they pay taxes now? Probably not. Probably not a yard of copper left in Leinster house either.
“It’s dun like, Jimmy Joe Patrick Francis. I feel like an hooman. To be restected on my own soile – not like me mammy and daddy gawd rest im, before me, bemakes me dink like I shud be stoppen with de grabbin n de theevin. de pure babby hart be lifted. Look a da smile on little Saint Joseph Django’s fase”
Al ca is a wind up merchant lol.
Just like the proposed one metre distance between cars and cyclists, load of BO**OX.
Well done Enda, bringing more honour to the Office of An Taoiseach, what a waste of space. St Patricks Day can’t come quick enough, get the weasel back from Washington and get him out ASAP. How much will today’s stunt cost the state?
I`ve never seen a traveller, ` walk with his head held down` , quiet the opposite actually.
I hate Pikeys
As a public servant who is Ends Kenny to go a recognise this with out asking the people who put where he is first????? You can be sure that out of all the votes FG got in the last election. Very very few if Any at all Co from the travellers. And another thing, why are the called “Travellers” when the majority of them are settled in sites with electricity and running water provided by us tax payers? None of them travel any where and none of them pay any taxess that’s for sure.
..its long overdue boss.. i have always been of the opinion that the Wilburys were different to any other band ever…I got my mind set on you….
I’ve only ever been robbed four times in all my years including going round the world too many times. Those four times were by travellers. The stats are there that explain the problems and yet no one is allowed to address them.
change has to start somewhere
agreed…. less theft, paying taxes and contributing to society in some way, any way at all would be a wonderful start
taking care of their horses and dogs properly would be nice. #animalcruelty
‘James’. Have you a list of references for your list. Just out of interest.
See above, stats all have link referencing sources. Some are a little old but I can’t see things having changed too much in 5 years or so.
https://www.reddit.com/r/travellers/comments/237ngq/traveller_statistics/
I’m suspicious of anyone who has never worked a day in their lives & never will, who break into my house, abusive, etc.   Does this mean that they will accept that there are members of their community that are homosexual, junkies, alcoholics.  That you can work for a living & pay tax.  Registar as self employed etc.   I don’t care what your background is if you want to be a member of the community you have to support the community.
‘He walks with his head down no more’ – any traveller I’ve ever met has been totally cocky with a massive sense of entitlement and superiority – this makes them sound like Ted from the Fast Show.
More fee money for these freeloaders. F*ck this country.
Forget about a different ethnicity – most of them act like they’re from a different species.
@qe5000: Exactly. Let’s hope for change for the travelling people.
When will the Traveller community stop terrorising the average Irish with their violent crimes and so on?I’m tired of them claiming discrimination when all this time they are the ones scaring away good people and acting like monsters!
You would swear America was a perfect utopia up until January 20th 2017.
@Eamonn:Agree, don’t read anymore (this one included) the continued hysterical rants from the anti-Semitic, terrorist loving, Jihadi loving left. Heard Pat Mercenary Lefty Kenny this morning on Newstalk. JHC, what ever happened to impartiality in reporting by journalist in this country. It’s embarrassing. All this anti-Trump bashing is now just one big YAWN.
@Warthog: “the continued hysterical rants from the anti-Semitic, terrorist loving, Jihadi loving left. ”I mean, the irony should be obvious, but…
@Warthog: Opposing Israel isn’t anti-Semitic. War crimes are war crimes,
@Search Eagle I think it’s lost on him lol
@Ewan Euphrenza:Who mentioned Israel?Tell that to the Jewish students in the 600 Universities in the USA who are been abused on a daily basis by members of CAIR, MSA, BDS, SJP, ITC, IIIT and supported by lefty yellow bellied non-muslim academics! The “Left” has to my memory always been “Anti-Jew”. In recent history that become even more obvious in the 60′s. Antisemitism is alive and well all across Western Europe.  So good luck with living in your little tunneled vision bubble.
@Warthog: Don’t even waste your breath trying to explain yourself to the leftards because they can’t handle the truth.
Where  all other American president’s whiter than white… Did they just work for humanity and did  they just do good .. or did they destroy the middle East,.  Make millions leave their homes,. Stand back while Isis was funded by their friends.. and so on.   They way people are acting you would think America was a utopia and only did good around the world…  It didn’t but sure let’s pretend it was and all others before trump were whiter than white.
@LITTLEONE:Don’t forget that, under America’s first black president, race relations have decended to their worst point in decades.
@Jason Culligan: Keep on telling yourself this, Keely Ann Culligan, it’s a nice alternative fact
@Jason Culligan: very true Jason.
Jason you are correct but they are about to get a whole lot worse which is why people need to fight every new policy aimed at dismantling the civil rights of minorities.
Social media has had a major impact on race relations. People can now see how the police deal with minorities and how they walk away from courts with a slap on the wrist. The problems were always there but now that people are demanding that the culprits are prosecuted, it has lead to more discussion and protests.
@Jason Culligan: True that
The reason race relations may have deteriorated under Obama is because Obama is black. People like Trump and the tea party et al couldn’t handle that fact.
What’s o malley doing to Ireland with this..The former Governor has also started a petition and a social media campaign with the hashtag #noshamrocks.Not great message for Ireland… Yet he has cheek to give out about trump.. his showing discrimination towards shamrocks…
@Jason Culligan:And in socio economic terms black people are far worse off than when his administration started.
@Emmet Not just black Americans. All Americans are worse off due to the recession. Minorities however, tend to suffer more for obvious reasons
@Emmet O’Keeffe: “And in socio economic terms black people are far worse off than when his administration started.” -When Obama was president,who was in control of the purse strings ? You can take your time..PS. Nice to see ye so concerned about the black folks ..
Actually in socio economic terms they are not worse off:Black unemployment:2009 12.7%2014 8.8%ImprovementBlack poverty:2009 25.8%2014 26.2%No major changeBlack average income:2009 $359542014 $35398No major change
@Soccer T’s: But thats still way below the average industrial wage
During Obama’s tenure, the percentage of black Americans struggling below the poverty line has advanced from 25.8 in 2009 to 26.2 in 2014 — up 1.6 percent.The number of black food-stamp participants exploded across that time frame from 7,393,000 to 11,699,000 up 58.2 percent.The percentage of black Americans who own homes foundered from 46.1 percent to 41.9 percent, according to the Census — down 9.1 percent.The Urban League’s National Equality Index found black Americans going backwards economically, from 57.4 percent equality with whites in 2009 to 55.8 percent in 2015 — down 2.8 percent.
@Soccer T’s:Actually your statistics prove my point.Black poverty increased.Average black income decreased.
Emmet your maths are a little off
@Emmet O’Keeffe: You haven’t answered my question.Do you need more time?
Under a black president who had no control over policies due to republican tea party hardcore who controlled the Senate and congress who stoked the fire for 4 years. When obama had control for the first 4 years of his term, it wasn’t like that. It only decended into chaos once the Senate and congress were under the control of republican extremists.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: While I can’t dispute the figures you give, I can dispute the differences you said because you are wildly inaccurate.Poverty: 25.8% to 26.2% is an increase of 0.4%, not 1.6% you said.Homes: 46.1% to 41.9% is a decrease of 4.1%, not 9.1%Economics: 57.4% to 55.8%, is a decrease of 1.6%, not 2.8%Did you not have access to a calculator?
And the food stamps figure is way off too.Here try thishttps://percentagecalculator.net/
@Jimmyjoe Wallace:Is Obama black?What happened to those other 23 chromosomes?
@meatyslaps:Far more important than dodgy maths is the difference between correlation and causation.Did Obama cause the increase/decreases or did they simply occur under his stewardship?What many simplistic commenters fail to realise is that free association of data and tenure is rarely intellectually robust.
@Jason Culligan . That is very true.
Nothin dodgy about Emmet’s maths lads, just your understanding of how percentages work. Take another close look..
Since when did this corporate Democrat become the voice of Irish Americans? The Irish media love to find establishment Democrats to pontificate on US affairs and ignore all the Irish Americans who are Republicans. And I’m not pro-Trump, was 100% Bernie who would have been far better for blue collar Irish Americans than the candidate O’Malley endorsed (Hillary) after he dropped out of the primary. But I’m sure O’Malley prepping for 2020 already and in turn is looking for media attention.
@Karl:Democrats like to put people into convenient boxes and then pretend to speak on behalf of the entire box. They irritate the black and latino Republicans to no end with this.
@Jason Culligan: unlike the Republican Racists, who just hate on anyone, that’s not a white millionaire straight male
@Larissa Caroline Nikolaus: Jason is a hoot.
Jason runs rings around you guys.Maybe that’s why you’ve resorted to constantly abusing him on a daily basis.Nasty bunch.
@Larissa Caroline Nikolaus:  what about o malley and his discrimination against shamrocks? What did the people of Ireland do to upset the democrats that just before st Patrick’s day.. they start a campaign called #noshamrocks…Not cool…..
@Larissa: So Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio. Ben Carson – they’re all racist? Not that it really matters but the Republican primaries were far more diverse than those of the Democrats. It’s a disgusting slur to label an entire group of people as racist just because you don’t agree with them. It’s close to accusing someone you don’t like of paedophilia. Can you back your assertion up or are you just as flippant with evidence as you are with maligning people’s character?
@Squarepeg01:Larissa doesn’t need evidence to make allegations against a person’s character. She assumes that she’s above reproach in this regard.It’s obvious that she lacks the emotional stability required to engage in rational debates and exchanges of ideas. Sad really that the tone has to be dragged down constantly.
@Larissa Caroline Nikolaus:No that’s just you who just hates anyone that is white, is a millionaire and is a straight male!
@Jason: a common trait on the left, I’m afraid.
Oh great! Larry’s here again to tell us all about the evil of white straight males, the phallocracy, to check our privilege, blah, blah, fu(kin blah… Seems like you’re pretty full of hate and resentment yourself, very quick to generalise all Republicans, almost comically oblivious to the hypocrisy of your diatribe..
@Jason Culligan:Watch those pronouns, Jason, I think you have succumbed to the alternative reality.
When will they realise that saying that Trump is “Racist and bad” is not going to work anymore in fact it does more good for Trump and one of the reasons he got elected in the first place.
So people should just lay down and take this? Protests need to get bigger and louder
Im guessing the ex Governer isnt familiar with Enda’s way of doing things.
Join the ‘Resistance’ maybe?
O’Malley today, will it be Ryan tomorrow on the airwaves? This is politics, getting painful too, Trump won the election.Move on.
@RG Law: So, because 45 won the election, he is above criticism, and can’t be protested against?
Adolf won the election, move on. No thanks!
Kennys final Freeby.. Weasel will see that plea fall on deaf ears…
3 leaf shamrock I adore thee.Donald Trump I deplore thee.Enda could u give him a bowl of sawdust instead to represent what’s between his ears.
The lap dogs ego wouldn’t let him miss it,One final pat on his Sleeveen head before we get rid of him.
No better man. He does shaking hands and insincere smile really well, maybe he could get a selfie too.
@Willy Malone: And if Varadkar wins the leadership then we’ll have a PM who has already stupidly declared Trump should not be invited to Ireland. He’ll have to weasel his way back out of that one.
O malley has some cheek … Showing discrimination against shamrocks.. how is this good for Ireland .The former Governor has also started a petition and a social media campaign with the hashtag #noshamrocks.   Not really appropriate … What’s Ireland done to him??????
Could you imagine if trump or his campaign stated this….#noshamrocks..  just before st Patrick’s day…. it be front page news….. Outrage on rte…..
Benny, Enda’s ears, certainly.
The irish solution! Keep the relationship going despite the cost to our lacking integrity! Lick the shoes of the Imperialists because we are.a wee little land! The irish leprachaun Enda! I”ll give ye three wishes now trump! What will it be? A golf course? A US military base? Or a bowl of shamrock and a smile! A great man ye are! Hypocrites one and all!
@John Coogan: fg slogan, keep the recovery going..translation-keep putting band aids on our broken system, and don’t reform anything.
Expecting enda to make a stand fo human decency and truth is asking too much enda only stands by bankers and as for the truth he couldn’t spell the word without telling a lie
@Seamus Brady: Expecting any traditional party or politician to make a stand for human decency and truth is apparently asking too much.  Or aren’t they all just nodding dogs when it comes to throwing open ”neutral” Ireland’s ports and airports to illegal warmongers, foreign despots dragging their slaves to damnation?  Of course they are.  Not a moral bone in their spineless backs.
Nothing like a good old populist rant to keep ones name in the public domain.
Americans of all heritage will little note the White House appearance of Kenny, local TV will cover parades, green beer and the Chicago river’s colour. The media’s view of the US-Irish relationship boils down to the President drinks a pint when visiting and someone takes a bowl of shamrocks to the White House n March.
I disagree.
No Shamrocks for devious Trump please! Enda Kenny should not attend St Patricks Day white house visit. Martin O’Malley is on the ball.
@Gerben (GJF) Uunk:No, he’s not actually. All he’s doing is pandering to the Irish illegals in the US by pretending to care for them.Don’t think for a second that this is anything other than posturing to become the future Democrat POTUS candidate for 2020.
The Irish media basically gives us the CNN version of Trump….Never mention even when they have US academics on they are democrat leaning ….We are being dragged into taking sides in a US culture war….It is too simplistic to see democrats as good like God and Trump as evil like Satan…Need to give him a year at least before making judgement….He does not even have his full cabinet yet…
@John003: imagine they gave airtime to a man who who has started a campaign of #noshamrocks just before st Patrick’s day.. why would national broadcaster think it’s ok to do this…  It’s not … St  Patrick’s day around the world is celebrated every where and having someone pushing #no shamrocks should not have been given the time of day. It’s hardly good for Ireland…
He’s right, you know?
@Stephen McManus: Butter the devil you know. Irrespective of thoughts towards ‘Do The Trump’, don’t cut off your nose to spite your face. All worldly political parties have to play their cards close to their chests. He is in for four years.
@Paul Somers: there a big difference between maintaining a working relationship and acting like a tail wagging dog.
Are you mixing up Merkel with Trump
I am certainly no Trump fan the man repels me but no other leader in the free world is boycotting meetings with Trump even the Mexican president has met with him.
Carcetti’s character from the wire was based on O’Malley
Trump is clinically insane.
Then again so is Kenny.
@Patrick O Shea:Not a good combination.
Why don’t you run for office since you are so smart and save us all.
What’s wrong with green beer??
Just one point in i disagree with, the white supremacists were quite often Irish or Scottish , pretty sure the kkk was founder by a Scotsman.
Given that the KKK is also anti Catholic I find it hard to believe that there’s a high number of Irish people in it.
Sean. When 1st founded there was a Irish element who wanted to preserve their stautus quo as owners of cotton plantations.The kkk revival in 1920 agreed was anti catholic.http://www.scotsman.com/heritage/people-places/the-scots-who-founded-the-ku-klux-klan-to-serenade-girls-1-4245873
Trump isn’t a white supremacist and this rhetoric is getting stupid now.
And the Birther movement which Trump spearheaded wasn’t racist and neither is Steve Bannon.
Sore loser
@Ed W, that’s about sums it all up.
During the civil war draft of 1863 and and executive order number 38 by General Ambrose Burnside to outlaw any opposition to the president or the union army,the Irish American press in New York particularly John Mullallys Metropolitan Record was the voice of Irish America and encouraged it’s readers to oppose Order 38 they went on the rampage lynching,beating and hacking to death 100 African American New Yorkers. It ended after 3 days with the burning down of an orphanage containing 233 African American orphans. The Metropolitan Record then became the organ for the Copperhead movement. No I wouldn’t want shamrock coming to my city either from the motherland of Mullalys copperheads  but not it for the reason the politician gives in this article.
Enda should pull an Oscar stunt – hand the Orange wannabe dictator a bowl of weeds and blame it on PWC
Didn’t Bertie tip over in his canary yellow trousers to give the bowl of shamroguery to the worst warcriminal of the 21st Century (yet) George W Bush?  Yirrah give over asides from slaughtering style and taste who has Trump murdered (yet)?
PEPE!These lads need to stay out of our business.
Trump is a Germanic name and he never has done that yet ?
If you study the anti Trump comments above you will notice that many of them are racist.  They dislike black people.  I don’t like that,  a person should not be judged by the colour of their skin.
Who will be held responsible ? No one. Just more reports after more reports. Hopefully these children have been removed & are leading a happier life.
Will anyone be sacked….. thought not!
In a cupboard  , how could anyone even think of doing this , sickening send in the Garda not a Commission  we will get nothing new or Lock the foster family and the HSE staff involved in a room , until investigation is finished . That might hurry it up, faster than 25 years.
The HSE also confirmed that the Conal Devine report cost €125,000, plus an additional €33,000 in legal costs, while the Resilience Ireland report cost €99,000 with a further €178,759 in legal costs.
We have a minister who thinks it’s ok to use prefab buildings for medical use in hospitals.   He can watch recordings of children having seizure, children unable to lead a normal daily life due to curvature of their spine.   But he is qualified in media studies.   What more would you need to do the job, but then he doesn’t want the job.   Minster for education who is cutting the number of SNA in schools.   No one in the media mentions SNA’s it’s always the teachers & strikes. This is one of the worse governments we have had in a long time.   Don’t forget the idiot who doesn’t realise that no one wants him in gov not even his own party.  Enda please do everyone a favour & retire.
Whispering Mickey Noonan should be dragged out and shot at dawn over this. Somebody has to do jail time.
Michael Noonan has a lot of explaining in this
The people of Limerick City should be ashamed of themselves for electing him.
Another “inquiry” will make it number 6 on the list of inquiries regarding sexual abuse in this “home”. No more inquiries are needed. Just action, arrest those responsible, those who facilitated the abuse, and those who covered for it.If this involved anyone near, close to, or in SF, MSM, RTE FG and FF would be going into apoplexy, it would be plastered all over “news media” for weeks.This is a bit of a long read. But it hightlights what was known, and who knew and the list of previous inquiries.http://www.broadsheet.ie/2017/02/28/confidence-in-the-institutions-of-the-state-are-in-unequivocal-jeopardy/
@Dave Doyle: The Irish Independent carried a short article on this yesterday, and never once mentioned the huge and very important part Noonan played in this scandal.
If this scandal involved anyone from SF there would be over 100 comments by this stage. All in faux outrage, all calling for the arrest, jailing and resignations.Where is the FG fraperroom now?
Sick and they knew about it, Graces father wrote to Mr. Bilderberg Noonan at the time who did diddly, jail him.
@Patrick O Shea: Oh Noonan did do something, he wrote to overturn the decision not to put Grace in the home, it was his direct advocating and interference on behalf of the home that seen Grace returned there.
I believe the foster father (I use the term in the loosest possible way) is dead, what about the foster mother? Is she dead, too? If not where is she? She should be in jail. As for the HSE and all other “professionals” involved, try them in Court. This country’s systems of child safety are not just broken, they’re dead.
I’m baffled by this case because it seems to be focusing  on the HSE’s responsibily ( and rightly so of course) – but is there not equal culpability on the guards who seemingly were aware of the allegations? Why were charges not brought against the alleged perpetrator at the time or even now? Lots of abuse cases are brought to court many years after they are committed so why is there no question of criminal charges here? In fairness to the guards they rigorously investigate cases of child abuse so why didn’t they in this case? Even if the perpetrator is dead now (I don’t know if this is the case) – he/she was alive while Grace lived there. Why is no-one querying the lack of prosecution?
And not once have I heard from anyone speaking out about the scandal that someone has to be held accountable. It may sound callous, but it just seems to be empty rhetoric from the authorities. Sickening.
Has there been any report of the foster parents being charged at any point ?
So we have established the foster parents are the lowest of the low. I forwarded this story to my partner who works in that sector to see what she thought about it and she pretty much said the only people who could have stopped this were the case workers and social workers involved. Because there is no recourse for malpractice or stonewall incompetence they don’t really have to worry about the consequences of their actions or lack of in this case. No one will be named and no one will be held accountable. A copy and paste apology is the best you can hope for
Are these so called foster parents going to be prosecuted and jailed, not to mention named and shamed? We’ve heard nothing about that, only about the HSE people, who are equally liable. Imagine knowing what was going on in that home and leaving that poor helpless girl there! How can they live with themselves?
I believe there is something seriously wrong when so called professionals don’t do their job , and the most vulnerable people of all are abandoned by the State… There must be accountability !
Always seemed to me to be genuinely committed to getting to the truth. Rare enough in big party politics.
Rare ? You mean “Never Seen” !
RIP. One of the good guys in politics
Cometh the hour, Cometh the man. He will be sorely missed. Ar Dheis De go Raibh a Anam
One of the good ones RIP Peter
This is a beaufifully written obituary. I’m always first to criticise the Journal when it gets it wrong, but this is a great piece of Journalism. Well done Orla Ryan.
He was well intentioned, principled, noble, decent and fair minded.He saw through thevdysfunctionality and malgovernance of the Banks, as well as the deleterious effect of the banking abuses on society.
Always struck me as a man of principle, good humour, and great insight. One of the good guys.
His tussles with Vincent Brown were legendary. RIP.
Always managed to get right under Vincent Browne’s skin.
RIP….a man of principles. . Called it as it was…. sadly not many td’s like him…
A good apple in a barrel of bad ones  rip
A genuinly good guy, albeit I disagreed with a lot he had to say, but he was always very brave on Vincent Browne and sadly missed. What a loss
No place in Lenster house for Men of High Calibre and noble principle !The Face of Kenny & so-called Dr O’Reilly laughing at dying man(he had already being diagnosed).I wonder how many are thinking today, that Lenister house cannot be reformed, & will have to be abolished to some how save the Irish Nation.
Nice tribute Orla.
Sincere condolences to your family and friends. Would not have agreed with you on all policies but was a huge admirer. In my opinion a person of hige integrity and in politics for all the right reasons. R.I.P..
“Kenny said he was “deeply saddened” by Mathews’ death” hypocrite…..
@Kerry Blake: your comment is spot on, and can be extended to others in Fine Gael and Labour leadership , who drove Matthews and other decent  people of conscience, out of the Dail.Their hypocrisy extends along the Fine Gael front bench, to Labour as well. No room for conscience on abortion there.
struck me as a genuine fella who wanted to make a difference then realised he hadn’t a hope of being allowed do anything .
RIP peter mathews. That u tube video is worth a watch….
Yes. He asked the hard questions and got few answers from our “Closed Ranked” political and unaccountable civil service parasites ! RIP
Noonan knows nothing about Economics or Finance.He’s just a perfect lackey for the ECB and the eurogroup and that is why he was put where he was.History has already absolved honest and intelligent politicians like Matthews and shown up Noonan and Kenny for the slimy subhuman worms that they are.
Our electoral system yields up some TDs of quality, who stand out from the party foot soldiers as professional, & strong in character, & who genuinely seem intent on contributing to building a better society. Mr. Mathews was one that few, but the stultified & whipped party system failed to recognise & give scope for that powerful intellectual commitment to the community. That his challenges to the “system” we’re smothered by his own party is yet another bad reflection on their recent form.
He was thoughtful, reasonable, well spoken and his own man. Very sad for his family. RIP
Rip Peter, you did well sir.
Peter Matthews  bravely, with a few others,  opposed  the Kenny/Labour abortion bill in 2013..Like  Lucinda Creighton, B Timmons,T Flanagan — all Fine Gael TDs, driven from Fine Gael  and the Dail, shamefully refused a free, conscientious vote — Peter Matthews, for his honest principles and stand aginst abortion, was  also driven out of Fine Gael, for upholding their election promise not to legalise abortion.I hope none of the Fine Gael/Labour pro abortion hierarchy,   who refused him and others that free vote of conscience on abortion, show their shameful faces at his funeral, or insult his decent memory now, with their customary crocodile tears of condolence.In 2013, we saw how they treated him and others.
It’s a joke, Kenny the stretcher of truth being talked up in the media when only last week he was caught out in an omission of truth.Let’s just sweep it under the carpet & move on…..poor Sgt McCabe can’t do that!!!!! Let’s keep Sgt McCabe in the news too.
Barefaced liar who was deliberately misleading the citizens in an attempt to confuse the course of fair treatment for a ‘distinguished’ servant of the people.What’s he doing in the job.Govt is an office holders gravy train that’s all.
Enda trying to appear relevant and in charge. More importantly any update on the number of people waiting on trolleys in pain and distress.
The liar,when you’ve lost confidence in the public get your coat and hope the door doesn’t hit too hard on the way to Berlin.
@Adrienne Kelly:Brexit is slightly more serious than Sgt McCabe. Let’s play the ball not the man.
Fred actually both are serious. Maurice McCabe must be delighted with your empathy
Let’s be honest here, Enda and his party have minus interest in a united Ireland.
Fred Jensen. No Brexit is not more important. Where the state tries to blacken an honest man’s nameVery Senior Gardai have lied  through their teeth to cover up wrong doing. The makings of a dictatorship.
I agree. How can an “EU Yes Man”like Kenny look after our interest. He is too interested in plaudits and pats on the head from the Brussels Euro federalises and has a ridiculously high opinion of his own abilities. He is Removed from reality and Living in a politician bubble of his own Ego and self preservation !
Last thing FG need or indeed FF need is tens upon tens of  thousands of SF voters flooding the market. That would upset the apple cart.
Sinn Fein, aaa pbp while strong on here are not credible
Never been tested. What’s gone before us has failed us.
Same old unless people go out and vote for change. Simple.
@Fred Jensen: Brexit is not our issue right now. What is our issue is the corruption with the powers that be in our own public sector. If we do not have our own house in order then what chance have we got of making a negative into a positive elsewhere. Comments like that are whats wrong with our country. How about looking after our fellow citizen first. Mr McCabe deserves our support. Each and every one of us. He stuck his neck out for justice. We should embrace that and stand up.
Any one notice the pat on the back Juncker gave him after? A real ‘ good jelly fish… there’s a good jelly fish’ kinda kudos
@gregory: why the belief in ff/fg ? you know they are corrupt right?think for yourself just like the people who support the parties sf, pbp,aaafdi will continue as will making the economy stronger be emphasised, but enriching certain “friends” and selling our assets will not be allowed, whats the catch?  cabinet members not wearing suits? having a strong local accent?
There will be a nationalist majority in the north in 2023 irish unity will be inevitable.
Hah who u kidding, a border poll wont happen any time soon.
Eamon…where would we get the €1 billion+ that NI costs the UK – every MONTH?
@Alanine Pipeline: From the UK for the first ten years at least…
Louis – the UK might well agree. The UK taxpayer has zero interest in NI and view it as an expensive anachronism. But we are barely able to service our €200+ billion National Debt!
A recent report from Canada suggests that a united Ireland would bring an extra 35 billion euro to the economy. The economic argument against a united Ireland doesn’t hold water.
a report! by whom – link?
@Alanine Pipeline: Some Irish accountant on the run from NAMA hiding in Alberta.
If we annexed NI, there would be huge parties – in every allotment, alley, street, pub, park in the UK. It costs them £11 billion a year – and nobody give a monkeys about it. That £11b would pay for the NHS for a month.
@John Travers: I’m curious about the reasoning. How would this work? What sectors would increase in economic productivity?  What synergies are involved? Would the benefits primarily accrue in Northern Ireland or the South of Ireland.What funding would be required to fund this increase or expansion? Where would the funding come from?
One other figure – the £11b would fund the HSE for a year. And we’re having a problem doing that, at the moment – without NI..
https://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/both-republic-and-north-could-benefit-from-united-ireland-1.2823081?mode=amp
@Graeme Gregg:  but where dies the €35 billion come from and how? I’m asking for real and tangible explanations.
@Eamon:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IbSGp4WIBsQ
A few things stick out in the report(!) – the lead guy has worked for SF/IRA. There is no mention of Brexit. And no detail of their analysis or assumptions – who are these ‘academics’…
@Alanine Pipeline:.. They’d pale by comparison to to the parties we’d have here.
@Louis Jacob:  If we annexed (not quite the word I use) the North I mean.
NI has ruined and blighted so many lives. The UK can’t do much about it – and those of us in the South who seek to annex it need help; we bankrupted our own country (ok – technically ‘almost’).
@Alanine Pipeline: First, ‘annex’ is completely the wrong word. Second, I completely disagree,  Reunification is precisely was we need in terms of moral and I think the resulting optimism would drive this country on to period of immense coopetartion and properity… Too easy to underestimate just how huge an occasion it would be
@Alanine Pipeline: get the 1billion from the u.k its the very least they owe us. Actually we should get 2 billion, considering we would be doing them a favour and as compensation for their reign of terror.
Optimism doesn’t pay bills – where would we get the money (£11bn a year)?
@Alanine Pipeline: For a start, they’re infrastructure is absolutely top class. They also have the 2nd busiest port. As part of a reunited Ireland, they would no longer by some weird back water sectarian horror story, they would be an equal part of a country that excels in the procurement of foreign investment.
@Alanine Pipeline: Also optimism is the prime component of a successful economy.
Louis – seek help. We are unable to manage our own country – why not answer, where will the money come from? To pay for our NI investment?
@Alanine Pipeline: I told you from the UK until we have had the chance to merge two economies into one. About 10 years.
Alanine-https://www.google.ie/amp/amp.irishexaminer.com/business/united-irish-economy-could-deliver-boost-of-36bn-388959.html
@Alanine Pipeline: The money comes from the resource. Louis is right, at least 10yrs but I would wager 20yrs. 63% of the population in NI work for the Gov, a mighty bill. approx 10% are in private and the rest is supported by social for whatever reason. Now they are an ageing economy. in the South we need new ideas, new energy, more resource as in people. We only have left the IT industry and if we invest we will do well. Problem is we do not have enough people. So, brexit is a major challenge to the UK. They will look at every budget they can decrease. NI is a major one. It is not like they are increasing private sector jobs, they are simply maintaining a private sector budget that will cost more and more each year. If we had an opportunity to negotiate then we could bring more companies into our little island and have more resource to fulfill these jobs. We would have more land to build, decrease the social spend as the industry of construction will be revitalised. A new found growth for NI and importantly, they would be tax payers that would help with infrastructure, housing, education, health. HOWEVER, nobody above has brought up the inevitable. It is a very divided society with a lot of harsh history. there would need to be a civil war (and I am not sure it would be that long but it may be brutal in a short space of time) to make progression. I for one am Irish and I would love to see a united Ireland in my lifetime. But on a peaceful level and with an economy to include all our citizens.
@Mary Ward: sorry maintaining a public sector budget….ouch
@Mary Ward: and the $1bn it costs to the UK gov to us. They simply negotiate a 5-10yr contract with us to cover the costs of taking over a very disfunctional and costly piece of the world they took in the first place. As they say, what goes around comes around but at a price.
A recent report meaning an opinion of one economist paid for by the political wing of -the so called IRA.
Despite kennys enthusiasm, what we really need more is to elect competent politicians who can do a job!And thats not kenny.
Name one so
@JJ O Riordan: Donal Trump???
There isn’t one. The rot runs so deep you would need to get rid of them all & bring in new blood completely from the business private sector. People who actually know how to run a business. The country is a badly run business so it’s business people who should be running it.
Haha. I can’t. Definitely easier by process of elimination. But did you see kennys recent performance in the dail trying to explain the McCabe issue! They’ll all be in stitches in Brussels if he gives a repeat performance.
@Adrienne Kelly: name these business people who have the intelligence and moral integrity to run the country, I can’t think of one.
@joe o hare: Not one Joe really?? So there’s not one outspoken business man who could run this country???
I had no one in mind specifically but business people know how to use a budget correctly, our politicians  claim to have budgets but they constantly overrun. Why? I operate a business & do bookkeeping for several different types of businesses and to all of these a budget is a figure you work within because the money is not never ending….and if you allocate monies you have to maximise your budget & get best value for your money. That does not happen in government departments. I could go on & on & pick out the problems in each area but you’d be asleep long before you got halfway through. The whole system needs a complete overhaul & change of rules & work practices but not going to happen because no one wants to upset the cushy status quo that’s going on. No one is able to break it while they all stick together. It’s a pity because we’re a great little country & a nation with a reputation for hard workers. C’est la vie nothing will change & we’ll all keep getting up to the SSDD!
Mind you Michael O’Leary wouldn’t be a bad choice
@Adrienne Kelly: no he would be worse than bad. Michael o Leary’s only interest is michael o Leary.
Are there any competent politician on the horizon ? Doesn’t seem so ?!
regardless of the childish commentary we are looking on a serious note at either Coveney or Micheal Martin.
@Adrian: Mary Lou if Adams stepped down. There are always options but we are a defeatist country. Not so long ago it was completely different. Have we learned. Not one bit.
So what you are advocating is essentially more austerity or higher taxes? Or a combination of both. No service provided that cannot at least pay for itself or even make a profit? Any service that cannot make that criterion has to be cut. Full privatisation of all non core government functions. Because that is the logic of your argument. Good luck with that electoral platform.
Politicians seem to be working adequately at a local level, they get elected, but at a national level, they are horrendously poor. There are 150 odd TDs in the dail with less than 20 in cabinet with a few more ministers of state.These are the jobs that we need to employ people with the proper qualifications and capabilities and i would say there probably needs to be an interview process and competency tests for these roles at national level politicis.A private company wouldn’t employ a teacher, a journalist, a social worker, a publican, a doctor, an accountant, a fella with an agriculture degree whose daddy was a politician, to fill their CEO roles in their company so why do we think these types of people are suitable to run big organization type departments in politics.
Joe, now there’s a throw-away comment without any value.  Unapologetically successful…more like him needed. I very much doubt all the current mouldy crop of politicians have done as much for Ireland as MO’L.Why do some people just hate others who are successful?
Politics is a dying thing.It failed the many and made rich the few. It’s time the people had a much better say in there own future too.
Serious question. What do you suggest as an alternative?
Totally. Can’t see politics taking at all. It’s just a fad.
Run the country as a business. And let a business man run it. Not some idiot who hasn’t a clue. Jesus you must know politics hasn’t worked for decades now. Politics is just another word for corruption
Would the business man be elected or who would pick him/her?
@Steven Hillert:   Like Mr businessman Trump you mean, now that’s working well.
@Steven Hillert: Do you have proof that business men are not idiots, would you consider business women.
@Steven Hillert: “Run the country as a business. And let a business man run it.”A country doesn’t operate like a business. In a business, the main goal is to make a profit. In a country, the main goal is to ensure a good quality of life for all citizens – including healthcare, education, housing, infrastructure etc..A businessman earning millions or billions has very little in common with the average family struggling. They are not in a position to empathise.
It’s amazing that people would disagree with you.
@Seán Ó Briain: I disagree. We have entered the world of globalization and economics plays a large part of it. A business is run on the merit of it’s employees and the willing to succeed whatever it takes. It therefore enables a degree of quality of life which includes healthcare (paid for by many a private sector company), education (which many a private sector sponsors), housing would be standardized as a business leader would need to ensure their employees at least have a roof, infrastructure in any company is crucial as any company needs resource planning and that includes getting folks to work. So actually, if we had real business folks in our government who looked at the budget and waste in many a gov dept (and there is so much because many a folk have a job for life…..sorry just being honest), then we would decrease the spend on administration, increase on necessary needs like nursing and doctors and stir the young into private sector jobs which in all fairness is our only industry left. We sold off everything else but we need to reinvigorate the work ethic and not allow a manager in a shitty dept in public sector that has a budget and a headcount to create a bs job for the sake of spending in the case that their budget decreases the year after. We need to introduce performance indicators and ensure said manager is making a profit be it in revenue or services. So yeah, we need to run this country like a business.
Are you a member of a political party? Are you trying to change things? Or just a specialist keyboard warrior?
And Mary, you think the Stalinist SF under the empress Maria Louisa fits the bill?
I wasn’t being facetious by the way!
No provision would need to be put into law to allow for NI to come back into the EU if it ever joined Ireland. East Germany was absorbed into the EU in 1990, so a precedent already exists. He’s just blowing out hot air again.
@Donncha Ó Coileáin:The EU did not exist in 1990. Different times and different treaties now.
EK is right on this. fair play.
the Treaty of ROME is the one that counts. anyhow the german car industry and eon germany’s largest energy co w/ uk operations has pressed Berlin f a deal w/ uk..
@Donncha Ó Coileáin: He is indeed blowing hot air. Trying to appeal to the very people who cannot stand him. Last ditch attempt but with him in government it would not happen. Personally I would like to see a one Ireland. I think since we sold every other resource we at least have a work ethic and a willing to learn. Our education is not so bad either. Of the population in NI, at least 63% work for the governing. Another approx 10% are employed in the private sector. The rest of the % is out of work or needing social assistance. That is quite a bill for the UK and we are in a surprising position to make a play. Why would we do that? We are a small country, we need people on the ground to take jobs, we may well inherit various companies from the UK on the back of brexit. We need space and housing. I doubt the government in the UK are making any profits on NI. Its a bill, a noose if you like. So we could strike a deal. We could reemploy the young into private jobs. Invest in housing for the private sector and particularly the building sector up there that has suffered the same as the south. We could have the UK pay a premium over a period of time to support the changes. Either way it is a cost effective option for them. We need more resource in the south with both people and housing and the tax payer to pay into our system. Would it work….not on your nelly. Not for about 20yrs. Why, the divide politically with the population in NI is too large. It’s a curse that was created if you like. It’s a pity. Progress is good and without it, there is only ever a recession of sorts.
German car industry has made very clear that while UK is important it sells majority of its product to other EU countries. More interested in preserving that.
Brexit looks like it’s going to be such a train wreck for many sectors in our economy just as we take baby steps from recession.
@mcgoo: Train wreck for Ireland but a beautiful thing for the UK. Time to leave the toxic EU.
26 + 6 = 1
@Mark Cronin:26+6=0
We – including our leader – are tremendous at giving advice to other sovereign countries (Brexit is a mistake; don’t vote Trump). But not so keen to take advice from anyone…
The master of the non-issue strikes again. Of course that provision would be there. Ridiculous to pretend it wouldn’t.
Go on kenny,ya oul republican.
We may not like to hear it but Kenny is a brilliant politician. I honestly can’t think of a more competent politician to represent us in this.We have a lot of support from Europe because of Enda.Leaving aside Maurice McCabe for the moment, on the issue of Europe, its good to have Kenny there.Don’t let anger cloud your judgement.
@Tom Burke: wtf are you on??!!??
@Tom Burke: Kenny is loved in Europe like a puppy dog, you keep kicking and it keeps coming back for the pat on the head. We need a Rottweiler who is respected and feared and if kicked will chaw their leg off.
JoeSo do you think we should have taken a stance like Greece?Have you been to Greece lately?It’s falling apart.
Take a look at this comment by Randal McNally on the article “On Brussels trip, Kenny says Brexit deal should include provision for united Ireland ” from TheJournal.ie:http://c.jrnl.ie/5916214
More like frustration,
Any time enda kenny conveniently remembers that Ierland has 32 counties, its usually to attack the opposition. This time around the ‘opposition’ is Britain.He’s a european first, remember.
And your point is?
Can picture it now, enda in a bar in castle bar singing a nation once again, followed by men behind the wire and Joe McDonell.
Enda could cure cancer and everyone will still want him out, doesnt matter what he says or does, no ine more villified.
Let’s face it, the Ulster Unionists have won on the political front. The Republic has given up its territorial claim on the North in the Good Friday Agreement. Now, by voting for Brexit, The Unionists have managed to completely separate themselves from the Republic and erected all sorts of legal, regulatory, trade and customs barriers that would not exist had the UK stayed in the EU. You could argue that the USA and Mexico will be far closer together through NAFTA than NI and ROI will be after Brexit. So there was no need to build a wall, Brexit is much better than a physical wall.
@Fred Jensen: NAFTA only covers free trade, and so still requires customs control, because a free trade area is distinct from a customs union.And I don’t think you’ll find the Mexicans very optimistic about NAFTA at the moment, since Trump’s proposal to force them to pay for the very wall you mentioned, is to impose tariffs on their imports (i.e. tear up NAFTA)
I think that Brexit is complicated enough without trying to bold on a United Ireland on the back of it. There is a red herring quality about this.
Fake news
Who gives to shiny shites what Edna has to say. We can’t trust him to look after the people’s interest at home never mind in Europe. Some neck on that turkey.
Cannot believe a liar.
Maybe he could ask for pigs to fly as part of the deal
Labourer anyway. Fine Gael seem to have a penchant for starting civil wars. Try this in Northern Ireland and batten down the hatches !!
???? What civil wars has FG started?
This is legally completely unnecessary. He must have some political game in mind, but what it is is anyone’s guess. There nothing in treaties to suggest that an EU State’s territory cannot be altered unilaterally, because how could there be: if a State expands, and it isn’t going to implement internal borders, obviously you either accept the expanded borders, or you have to kick the whole State out.More importantly, they’ve already done this once: when East Germany was absorbed by the Federal Republic of Germany.
When the UK leaves the EU won’t the Good Friday Agreement be null and void?
No.
@Bobby Fox: no, but the delivery of some of the promises of the Good Friday Agreement will be rendered doubtful.
@Tony Daly: Well if so, then we just reinstall articles 2 and 3 in the Constitution again.
A united Ireland via Brexit , IMO, would sideline Sinn Fein and its Socialist Republic policies.Perhaps those who gave their lives for the cause since the 60s will be revered as those who lost their lives in The Warfor Independence?
A united ireland wasn’t something he was interested in pursuing! Says all you need to know about there partitionism.FF and LAB are the same they run no candidates in northern elections for the reason being they don’t want a united ireland well just come out and state this take it out of your parties policies and admit you couldn’t care less about it.Why lie?
What is he on…the countrys banjo’d…who gives a flyin fu@k about some hypothetical country that will never happen an nobody wants…go now ffs
Is that why Arelene Foster wants to ruin it???
Why are these lyrics spinning around in my head? -‘I don’t need to know you’ll be thereYou’re not not on my mind.I don’t need to know you carePlease don’t waste my time……’With apologies to Christina Grimmie and her song ‘Liar Liar’.
This man cannot be believed. He is a liar.
This really makes me laugh. There is no heave ay all, this shower are masters of deception and deflection . They are trying to get the lame duck past the post and let the Maurice McCabe /Tusla etc debacle blow over. It’s just a well staged drama of deflection and deception, these slimy hoors don’t pay millions to pr firms for nothing. No doubt their usual hacks & shills will have a field day on this.
Well sure it will be one less month the state will have to fork out on another ex Taoiseach pension. Don’t forget whoever follows him will only last a year at most but will claim a ex Taoiseach pension for the rest of their lives. Which in the case of some of the contenders could concisely be for the 50 years.
Correct Michael. Just as the calls for the Garda commissioner to step aside reached fever pitch, the TUSLA debacle was made public, then just as that pot started boiling, kenny did his ‘mea culpa’ crap in the Dail.
@mickmc: Better to fork out for an ex-Taoiseach than have a leader who continues to wreck the country while the rest of the government make fools of themselves and drag the country down, like the last fianna fail government did.
@Chris Kirk. And do you think Varadkar, Coveney or whoever is the next Taoiseach will not continue to wreck the economy as you put it. Of course with an economy growing at anywhere between 3-5% and just under a 1000 jobs being created every week you have a funny definition of what wrecking an economy is but sure each to their own.
School yard tactics
@mickmc: Where have you been that you wern’t around the last time Fianna Fail were in government. Have you forgotten Brian Cowan already and his cronie friends in Anglo already. Have you forgotten the ‘light touch’ de-regulation of banks which we are all having to pay for. Have you forgotten the finance minister who told us we have turned a corner, whilst the troika were raking over the coals of a failed economy.Enda Kenny might be a lot of things, but thankfully he is not that stupid to let the heavy lifting since 2010 be wasted.
I fail to understand the revenants of your comment. Of course I remember it all and I also remember the mess your old friend and local hero Sean Quinn did to the economy.
@mickmc: imagine if sean Quinn had of kiss ff/fg backside?  he could be a foreign billionaire still getting favourable loans just like dob! throw in lucrative contracts which again awarded under dubious circumstances but nay bother there will be an “inquiry/tribunal” which of course will be ignored as usual, don’t worry bout the gardai their sorted, nod nod wink wink
@mickmc:How many times must it be said mickme, its no good having growing economy while it only benefits the few. People are not stupid 1,ooo jobs a week? not much use having  a job when you cant afford the cost of living at the end of the week. Lots of people who were on 15/16ph now after been made redundant see others doing the same job for between 9.15-10.00ph. So stop with the nonsense of govt propaganda because they are fooling nobody.
I think you will find most people are better off now than they were in 2011. OK your right wages are not as high as they were 10 years ago but those wages were not sustainable. Anyone that thought it was sustainable and built their lifestyle around those wages have no one to blame but themselves.
@mickmc: So 30,000 a year wages were not sustainable but 150,000 a year is.Get off your high horse mickme and stop defending the indefensible. You have just let the cat out of your blueshirt bag. There you have it folks 30,000 a year to live on ,maybe bring up a family, have a mortgage is not sustainable.Also all you people who were sacked or laid off over the last number of years  did yous not know? it was your own fault, you were all earning to much. Imagine having to build your life and family life around 30,000. By the way I think you will find that its the 10% that are better of now than in 2011.
Wow. You certainly don’t half jump to conclusions now do you Derek. First of all I’m not a member of any political party. Secondly you mentioned €15 per hour not me. When I walked about unsustainable wages I was thinking of maybe €30-40 p/h for an unskilled labourer on a building site. That was not uncommon back in the boom times. And thirdly your telling me only 10% are better off now than they were in 2011. Where did you pluck that figure out of? Off hand I can think of at least 5 people who were made unemployed during the recession and while admittedly I never talked to them about their current wage structure the fact that they have new car, are going on foreign holidays, renovating their house, eat out quite often would suggest they’re considerably better off than when they were on the dole 2011. But then again maybe I only talk to blueshirters voters who automatically live the life of Reilly because of who they vote for.
@Michael Clinton: Staying at…https://www.simplemost.com/clown-motel-americas-scariest/?utm_campaign=bomlaicos&utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=partner&utm_partner=bomlaicos&utm_content=150
Kenny is like a bad smell at this stage.
Who will you be giving out about next month?
Emma it will still be Kenny. He’s going nowhere soon.
@Emma o Neill-are u for real Emma-he lost all credibility when he told lies in the Dail-we’re talking about another mans reputation here .He and his family were almost destroyed.
This is surely some kind of joke?  We know Fine Gael don’t have any respect for the people of Ireland at this stage, they treat the health service as a Sunday evening joke amongst themselves on a wattsapp group, they are not too interested that  more and more people are joining the homeless queue, they don’t care that the majority of Irish people now have zero faith in our Gardai because of their shambolic treatment of the last 2 commissioners. I could keep going but I’d end up depressing myself more. It is true that the people of Ireland don’t want to have a general election, but these government,and the previous one,has left us with no other choice. What’s the point in sending enda Kenny to all these European meetings when he is going to be sitting in mayo watching things unfold like the rest of us? Let’s not forget his mae culpa in Europe, he told them we were hours away from having the army around the atms. The Europeans still can’t believe in his still coming to the meetings. Enda needs to be gone this week and a general election needs to be called in may. Fine Gael has let this country down last night. And those that let this charade continue need to be held accountable
@John Bennett: tell the eu to stick their loan repayment plan and then we are very, very important
And so he gets away with the lies, again. Ah shure twill be grand, twas only an innocent man’s reputation.
Is Gorry heading over, or is he off to North Korea for the funeral?
Spoken like a true blue fantasist liar. Well said Diarmuid. You are the best reason on the Journal for voting for Sinn Fein. Keep up the good work.
That’s a lot more times this imbecile gets to embarrass this country.I look forward to the day we can wake up and this idiot is not the head of state.
@Pius Flynn: Higgins is the head of state, making trips to Cuba and Colombia at the taxpayers expense.
@Chris Kirk: do caught up, the political stiff upper lip is gone, people including heads of state are allowed to visit these countries now as America said so!good to see an irish president visit places for the right reasons for a change
Don’t come back – useless spanner.
@Paul Furey: He will as will Hogan one day lol.
Lets tell the damn truth!The continuation of Enda Kenny at the top, is a further example of the complete shambolic of others incapable of acting in the interest of the people or of justice. It is a classic example of ALL that is wrong in the underlying present system of politics in Ireland. It is a clear example of the complete incompetence of political parties to do the right thing for the people they are supposed to be serving – not exploiting!.* We have running the country, a head of state that lies to the Dail.* We have running the country, a head of state that lies internationally.* We have running the country, a head of state that lies to those that deserve better – including Maurice McCabe. Enda Kenny has on the national stage spun THREE different version of events in the latest crisis – the 27th if anyone is counting!* We have running the country, a head of state that allows others also to lie; I.E. The justice minister who in her own powerful position, has spun at lest two of her own alternative McCabe versions.* We have running the country, a head of state that, along with his party, was only wanted by 25% of the 65% that voted out of a population of 4.8 million.* We have running the country, a head of state that has no mandate except his own – one of national betray in favour of the EU over Ireland protections.* We have running the country, a head of state that is allowing a nation of personal data to be given away repeatedly to various private companies – ALL without any permission sought.* We have running the country, a head of state that with his party has bullied an entire nation – near jack-boot style – and create his necessary laws in order to do it!* We have running the country, a head of state that is allowing BILLION of Euro to be given away via tax dogging scheme he’s backed, losing BILLIONS in natural resources from oil and gas to our fishing industry – and more!* We have running the country, a head of state that is now a god-damn unfunny joke. True history – not the bullcrap PR spun version by Fine Gael, Denis O’Brien media and RTE – will tell a more full version of disgraceful events under Fine Gael and its story inventive leader.ALL the above and more is being allowed to continue by a shower in Fine Gael that again has been exposed as completely useless. They cannot even rid the disturbed man from their party. When they repeatedly fail to do so, they fall back to making countless excuses of “be allowed go in his own time” and the “great work he has done” – both a load of rubbish that all to many laughs at as they speak such recognised stupidity.Fine Gael own elected have admitted Enda needs to go. They have expressed their own lack of faith in him. Yet, despite this, because Fianna Fail is concentrating on trying to repay back their own €1.5 Million Euro, previous election debt – they not only still crazy prop up this multi-story person – they espouse confidence in Enda Kenny by allowing he and his party to continue shambolicly in government – all their while Fine Gael ministers are lashing the hell out of Fianna Fail and making them instead, out to be liars!You couldn’t make this crap up – well, except for yarn spinning Enda maybe!The full truth is that Enda Kenny needs to go – but along with him, Fine Gael needs to go also. Fianna Fail won’t make this happen because of their own self-interests. The disgraceful Endapendents won’t do it either because of a lack of moral spine possession or having a self-gain, self-agenda also.The full truth is that more people need to kop themselves on to what the hell is going on and stop accepting all this crap and more.Ireland has now suffered many decades of poor political representation – through a poor political system. IT’S TIME TO IMPROVE BOTH. Anything less, will see just more decades of the same continue. Let’s not lie even to ourselves.It’s time we all kopped on a little bit more. It’s time many too complacent in Ireland, got up off their arse and joining others, say “Enough of all this crap!”
@Unitedpeople: Absolutely great post, the people of this country need a wake up call to actually enforce change.If the same bunch of good-for-nothings get back in next time, I’m hopping on a plane out of here. We need to pile on the pressure for these ignorant idiots to realise, they’re not fooling anyone but themselves!I don’t think it’s right for a country to be put on ice for 2 months while this fool decides how/when he’s fired. He’s a disgrace and should be forcibly removed from office for his betrayal!I’d head to Leinster House this evening and bring a guillotine.
@unitedpeople Well said! Fantastic post! I’m sick of the gombeen political class and us idiots for always putting up with their crap.
United people ! Sinn Fein put down vote of no confidence in government FF abstained so kept. Government in power ok
@Noel: ff = fg.
And we are expected to have faith in the new leader to fight for us against the big boys and they couldn’t even get rid of that gobs.ite
And not a word in the media about why this embarassing clown has to go,mccabe story buried for now.trump should come here if he wants fake news
You have to hand to Enda Kenny, he’s mad a complete fool out of us all again!
I just hope Donald Trump takes him to task on the comments Enda made about him when he visits and embarrasses the hell out of him!
FF FG And LAB are all about party first cronies next  and way down the food chain the voters The Idea that Kenny Merkles lap dog  is respected by other EU leaders is a joke…worst still  we will vote for the same bunch of hooks in the next election  We have the TDs we deserve.
Hypocrisy of enda knows no bounds. Both he and his cabinet are a shambles and it’ll be interesting to see how many of them will be reelected in the next general election.
“When I hear of threats or caucuses and motions of no confidence after 42 years here,they are of no interest to me, none,” Mr Kenny told the meeting last night.If that is true Enda ..eh””,then why the need to say it ?
Mr Kenny did the right thing by our country, not always popular, didn’t always get it right but we are by his leadership and our own efforts back on the road to recovery. He held the system together when loonies seem to be in self destruct mode and the world had us written off. He doesn’t deserve credit for it any more than any man who takes on a job and does what he says and gets paid for it.
@Desmodromic: That’s some fairytale you have.Everyone is corrupt but the ones in charge of the corruption? Best one I’ve heard in a long time.
Where’s the ‘laughing uncontrollably’ emoticon?!
@Desmodromic: “Mr Kenny did the right thing by our country”I couldn’t read any further than the first line, I was laughing too much :-)
Keep taking the tablets Desmond.
@Desmodromic:Held the system together? He and Michael Noonan have gamed the system to the betterment of the few& the detriment of the many.And now these FG ingrates think he deserves a lap of honour?  Jesus wept
How’s he gonna point at invisible stuff and look into the distance, or pretend fist bump when he’s not the taoiseach anymore?
And in other news, the Taoiseach will visit Ireland in the coming months to tour it’s capital.
I thought I heard on the radio this morning that Kenny would be gone by Easter. It looks like he is already making his farewell visits, but who is running the country while we have strikes over transport, healthcare and schools.
A week of ,….will he or won’t he ? ……  maybe or maybe not  ?oh the uncertainty and sunspence is killingwell one very happy man is Martin in FF.I hope nobody has told Trump that our Taoiseach Enda is a lame duckwhen he makes his visit to the White house with his mae culpa speech there.
Enda going on a jolly while the children’s hospital for the country has a projected cost of €1,200,000,000.   They really don’t care about sick children-they simply want the power.
I genuinely thought he was the best Taoiseach we have had in the the last 20 years.
@Pat Molloy:I think Enda will agre with you there.
@Pat Molloy: That was because they repeated that so often, look at all the new taxes and happy bankers?
Don’t bother coming back, ask Trump is he short another ass hole for his government, offer your services
Fairwell Tour 2017!
Wait till he comes back, and he’ll go “I’M NOT GOING ANYWHERE!”
Bit optimistic to expect the Article 50 trigger in less than three weeks time. The bill is still at the committee stage in the House of Lords. Knowing the Brits they’ll give notice to coincide with the Euro 70 party in Rome.
FG leading contenders hadn’t the balls to challenged Kenny for leadership end off
If you listen carefully through the storm you can hear him breaking his bollix laughing at the lot of us…
He is sitting back laughing at everyone because when he goes he will have a pension that you & I can only dream of.
Enda of Kenny
Change the locks while he’s gone
@marty dot: On the Dybbuk box lol.
@marty dot: Sorry that should be the Dip Stick box lol.
What a tool
I have never voted Fine Gael but this story is really being pushed by the media who are dragging the public along for the ride……..
Indeed Sean, deflecting from the real story. They’ve lied and tried to set up an innocent man with horrendous charges. Our Taoiseach lied in the Dail, lied on national airwaves, and now the major cover up continues
@Sean Higgins:I would not be one bit surprised if the ‘leadership’ heave was orchestrated from day one to alleviate the pressure on Kenny and Fitzgerald on being caught out lying.And lets not forget oul Noirin…where are the calls gone for her to step aside.The media are as big of a farce as the government, including this stupid and pointless liveblog.
@Soupy Norman: I totally agree with you, a farcical government  deflecting from the real issues aided and abetted by the farcical media…
@Sean Higgins: And the whistle-blower fiasco nicely covered up the hospital waiting list debacle – has that been forgotten already?
They are worse. They are the ones who’s stated aim is to bring the truth to the public and hold the government of the day to task. Most of the media are failing miserably at this.
Have to hand it to Michael Martin. How he can keep a straight face while he criticises the lame duck he’s propping up in power is beyond me.He should be more honest‘Taoiseach, this is unacceptable. Its now becoming almost impossible to pretend we’re the opposition……’
If he pulled the plug now polls show he’d be TaoiseachMaybe it’s just that he lived through a time when we had 3 elections in one year and it turned the country into a basket case to have that kind of instability?Would you have refused to make a supply and confidence deal? Then there’s have been another election with another hung Dail polls showed , so what then?
Seems he’s going to act the tough guy maneen which he has perfected when dealing with the boys and girls in FG which is a direct contrast with the good little lad attitude he brings to Brussels and it’s becoming nauseating for the citizens to watch this charade.
Is Kenny using an earpiece today or is he answering any questions at all?
talk about dragging this out !!!
@Michael cunnane:They will only stop talking about Enda Kenny stepping aside and his replacement once they feel that it’s safe that the furore surrounding the McCabe incident and blatent cover-ups/lies has died down. The whole circus is nothing but a distraction. They honestly believe that we cannot deal with more than one thing at a time due to our tiny little feeble minds.
Enda Kenny  is a liar…
@xor: And his pants are on fire.
@Derek Poutch: His nose is as long as the telephone wire.
Give a date enda or divide the party.more important issues to be dealt with.You will remember the name McCabe every day of your life, it will haunt you.
Perhaps it is time that Bus Eireann was tendered out and broken up into regions covered by private bus companies competing for business. The farse of having overpaid drivers and trade unions holding the country to ransom should be a thing of the past.
@Chris Kirk:  correct. jobs for the boys is what the semi states and public sector are all about.  as long as the workers are looked after with good pay and pension and their work practices are left unchallenged,  then all is well with them. Bertie bought them and the labour party protected them ( as they look after their major financial contributors).  there is a place for public services but not at any cost.
Spain had the same problem after its civil war the south had no bus services as Franco was only interested in a route from Madrid to Valencia. In came an Argentinian company tendered for the contract and  wow what a service. Got a bus all the way from Algeciras to Rhonda for seven quid last year on a modern coach adapted for LPG fuel so they cut costs are cleaner engines and they give that to their customers. Professional service polite drivers and they would never leave you in the middle of no where without a connecting service unlike their Spanish counterparts( and for that matter Irish)./Every bus company in the world are adapting their engines to non fossil fuels,the dail have divested from fossil fuels and ABIOTIC variants however we still have these oversized engine fanciers hijacking our transport again. Freedom of provision of services and ” passporting” which allows any EU nation or company operating within to tender for transport or INSURANCE contracts..time we kicked these MIBI Bus Eireann and Trinity House London lunatics into touch …they behave like that North Korean dictator telling us there is nothing beyond their civil war politics.,because when people realise there is then they lose control.
This situation will create a massive logistical problem. If Bus Eireann do become insolvent, the work load will fall back on the private bus operators that mostly struggle to attract drivers. Private operator drivers will get overworked and they are underpaid in a lot of cases as it is.
After the 17 March NYC trip….of course…
Is he still hanging around the parasite?
plebiscite*
21th April I reckon
The man is spineless, he has ensured all his cronies have pensions for lives.The man should be put on trial for treachery to the Irish people.
Why not. After turning the country around and taking us off our knees the least he deserves is a victory lap. I’d like too see Harris take over.
1st of April would be apt.
@Eye_c_u: hilarious stuff lad.
@Eye_c_u: harris has failed at health what makes you think he can run the state.actually what makes you think anybody in fg can run this state they have failed just like ff.
No one could win in the health dept.
who cares about fg leadership there all corrupt the media are just using this as a deflection Kenny is hoping everybody forgets so he can stay a long with his corrupt commissioner what a crooked little country we live in
@FifiJamming: excuses that all we here from fg supporters.to busy looking after the boys fifi.its easy bud just sack all the top boys and girls.grow a pair of balls
ff fg and ind alliance agree with accusing good guards of rape twisted government a shambles so is the lame street media.the whole country even abroad knows how crooked ye are.
I’ve great respect for the man. He is a poll topper. It’s just the shinners being jealous they won’t be in power anytime soon
@Bobby Phelan: Really, do you think it is so easy? Just sack everyone. I hope SF get into government next and do just that. But SF being SF, they will just run a mile form hard decisions and actual doing stuff.Your analysis is so simplistic, that it is just funny.
Its a circus to take the heat off. Who gives two fcuks who’s taking over, whats happening with the McCabe issue? Deflect deflect is all they are good for
Great little country when you can get a big pay off/pension for four years work.http://www.thejournal.ie/kenny-says-he-will-defer-e100k-pension-lump-sum-until-he-leaves-politics-87736-Feb2011/
@FifiJamming: put them in fifi and we will see what they can do.
Yea, it’s up to me. I’ll do it booby, I’ll put sf in. Just me.
They would want to start sorting out the Judges in this country. Martin Nolan giving bail to a man convicted 6 times for rape and other offences after he assaulted another woman caught on.CCTV.
@Andy Wallace: was it the man with two pints
Lets not forget, we are where we are today because of FF/FG/L.
So will he go back to being a teacher?
@Damocles:  The biggest fear facing the children and parents of Castlebar at the moment.
@Damocles: Kids need an education, not more Dumbing down and lets hope he vanishes with all his political promises of the past.
He probably would qualify for a job in the local crèche teaching painting by numbers but instead he may we’ll be handed the latest new makey uppy ministerial position of Brexit Minister. With the usual juicy salary and perks of course.
Won’t need too. Well respected in mayo.
@Eye_c_u: if that’s the best mayo can put out there doesn’t say a lot for mayo people does it.
The spineless one  wants to break the record so will try stay until April,any one with balls in that party would stand up and demand he goes now.He’s a disgrace to the country.
@Damocles: Teaching pension of 100k lump sum and 30k a year – a 1.1 million pension pot will soon be delivered to Enda. He has been accruing pension rights from teaching for over 40 years now.
@Damocles: I bet he keep that pension?
Enda kenny destroyed family’s lives and continues to do do so with austerity policies on the most vulnerable in society to protect the wealthiest in society,banks,and bondholders.thats his legacy.rotten corrupt liar.
He needs to go & he should take that crook Noonan with him!
@Colette Kearns: At first I was afraid, I was petrifiedKept thinking I could never live without Enda by my sideBut then I spent so many nights thinking how you did me wrongAnd I grew strongAnd I learned how to get alongAnd so you’re backFrom outer Trump spaceI just walked in to find you here with that sad look upon your faceI should have changed that stupid lock, I should have made you leave your keyIf I’d known for just one second you’d be back to bother meGo on now, go, walk out the DailJust turn around now‘Cause you’re not welcome anymoreWeren’t you the one who tried to hurt me with goodbyeDo you think I’d crumbleDid you think I’d lay down and die?Oh no, not I, I will surviveOh, as long as I know how to love, I know I’ll stay aliveI’ve got all my life to liveAnd I’ve got all my Bills to give and I’ll surviveI will survive, hey, heyIt took all the strength I had not to fall apartKept trying hard to mend the pieces of my broken heartAnd I spent oh-so many nights just feeling sorry for myselfI used to cryBut now I hold my head up high and you see meSomebody newI’m not that chained-up little person and still in love with youAnd so you felt like dropping in and just expect me to be freeWell, now I’m saving all my lovin’ for someone who’s loving meGo on now, go, walk out the doorJust turn around now‘Cause you’re not welcome anymore in F.G.Weren’t you the one who tried to break me with goodbyeDo you think I’d crumbleDid you think I’d lay down and pay?Oh no, not I, I will survive EndaOh, as long as I know how to love, I know I’ll stay aliveI’ve got all my life to liveAnd I’ve got all my love to give and I’ll surviveI will survive EndaOhGo on now, go, walk out the doorJust turn around now‘Cause you’re not welcome anymoreWeren’t you the one who tried to break me with AusterityDo you think I’d crumbleDid you think I’d lay down and pay?Oh no, not I, I will survive EndaOh, as long as I know how to love, I know I’ll stay aliveI’ve got all my life to liveAnd I’ve got all my love to give and I’ll surviveI will surviveI will survive
They’re using this ‘successor’ story to deflect from the McCabe affair. They lied and tried to destroy an innocent man. Sickening to think they’ll all get away with it. They, along with anyone that defends and votes for them, should be ashamed of themselves
Exactly the reason why it’s been dragged out, keeps the Maurice McCabe story off the front page. Typical FF/FG behaviour, we have become accustomed to nothing less.
the journal is helping with their quest just like rte never a tough question from our media.only for Gemma Doherty WE WOULD KNOW NOTHING.
@Bobby Phelan:  No tax doesn’t come cheap.
He will be well rewarded for his work in the eu. Time to cash in all those brownie points.
@Michael Clinton: Golden Brown points?
One thing is certain.  He won’t go til he’s delivered the bowl of Shamroguery to Trump. In that, he’s a doomed agent, a sacrifice, a scapegoat with a red thread tied around his horns.
He met a man that told him he is guilty of clogging up the roads by getting people back to work… His imagination is almost child like
@Willie the kid: Getting them to go to Seetec offices to do what they already did at home?
And I don’t mean use the toilet lol.
Is he seriously after saying he ‘met another man’? Was it the one with the 2 pints I wonder. Journal, why aren’t you and every other journalist ripping this embarrassment to the Country apart!
@William Clay: It’s inconceivable that a man who spends his life visiting people in various locations could meet a man. Get over it.
How stupid can they get.Next thing they’ll be say the world is gonna end if kenny goes!
This whole leadership carry on is because the backbenchers are fearing for their seats. Backed him last Wednesday and couldn’t wait a week. Some of the idiots doing the shouting are hoping to be “on a promise” of cabinet seat without the need for a sex change op.
sick of the whole lot of them all  of them useless unfortunately i can see FF getting back in the cute hoors will want them back in to wreck the country,
Simon Harris as taoiseach. Frightening thought
@Potatoe-man: Ming has already come out in support, declared Harris ‘a God’. Who knew?
@Potatoe-man: For the words ‘Kenny’ and ‘future’ to be publishable you’d need a time travelling DeLorean and a LOT of banana peels.
Meanwhile as the blueshirts and the media disappear up their own backsides wondering which neoliberal ghoul will next lead the country, the Garda Commissioner who  attempted to destroy Maurice McCabe remains in her position backed by FF and FG.
Media have no shame like the fg party.  They have turned around what happened last week and the scandalous accusations we all heard about in regards to MC cabe to  look at fg ,. Look at who wants to be top dog.. it’s suddenly now all about them. Forget the lies that were told in the dail, on national radio, TV,. Forget that those in the running for the top dog are part of the problem.. no shame..
@Alan Cooke:Are you not posting under your Bejasus Bejorrah account today? Be careful you don’t reply to yourself by accident again :)http://www.thejournal.ie/stephen-donnelly-poll-fianna-fail-3220516-Feb2017/
Any of the people mentioned for leadership is frightning and just as bad as enda
Why do you keep changing your name dusty?
@Mick Power:Because the Journal keeps barring me for expressing socialist ideas.
@Mick Power:What are FF and FG backing a corrupt Garda Commissioner?
@Potatoe-man: Is this FG’S idea on how to spend their time when there is a country in crisis that need fixing?
If Harris gets the top job, it would be like putting Draco Malfoy in charge of Hogwarts.
@Dusty Mooney:Or you in charge of AAA
Jog on Goofy. Consider yourself dismissed.
@Dusty Mooney – Draco Malfoy in charge of Hogwarts – pure gold!!!
Fg just ignore all there corruption not a bother to them. this country is in a frightening position at the moment when the media isn’t holding this type of corruption accountable.fg ff are corrupt and we are accepting this by not demanding sackings dictatorship is a live and well in the banana republic.
It’s an attempt at deflection Bobby, corruption, whistleblower character assassination and cover-ups, HSE in tatters good God I could go on and on..And all of a sudden all is forgotten and have managed (all with the unquestioning help of the totally compliant media I might add) to centre the spotlight solely upon themselves and which one of the gormless will replace the head gormless, quite sickening to think they believe we are that bloody stupid.
Sure Simon Harris hasn’t even made his confirmation yet
He’s going to use his confo money to fund us campaign.
@Gary Keegan:  He should keep it and buy himself a personality!
@N: FG have nothing to offer, no matter who gets it and they should just merge with FF and stop pretending they’re different.
@N: If Noonan ran for it and was successful there would be an election the day after. Nobody wants that evil b@stard anywhere near the office of An Taoiseach!
Is there any chance either Coveney or Varadkar might move noonan out of finance? If there is then I think that person would be the better option.
@Stephen murphy: bang on the button Stephen the only people they fool is there own supporters.
Simon Harris always looks like he should be in a hospital not the minister of health.
@Paddy Norton: There is gluten in the waver?
@Les Behan: Merkel likes him lol.
It’s like the long goodbye and his over inflated ego wants it that way, for this talentless, deluded donkey.
He’s even at odds with his own party as FG are struggling to portray his exit in a somewhat dignified manner, trying desperately to protect him from ridicule and stop him from being the laughing stock of the country.
Sure if it went to a party vote he’d win anyways so there’s no rush, thankfully.Hopefully he stays as long as possible. Fantastic Taoiseach.
@John Lally: Smoking the olde green stuff there john, sharing is caring and give us all a bit of it.
All a shower of greedy muppets retiring on outrageous pensions the country simply cannot afford.
@johnny c: True, why do we keep re-electing them and aren’t the irish sheeple just as bad?
As bad as the thought of these grubby muckrakers retiring on their fat pensions, its not money that drives them- it’s the power and prestige theyre after.What’s best for the country only gets considered if it makes them look better, or enables them to cling onto power for a little bit longer
Harris showing his and FG’s contempt for the 1 in 8 Irish on waiting list.
That’s a misleading headline….it’s not in the balance…he’s finished and long overdue. His dealings in general were appalling and all that is happening now is trying to make him look somehow dignified..
Bizarrely…it looks like FF will be ruling the roost again, shortly – it could ONLY happen here!!!
If there was an alternative to FF or FG being the main party then it would change, but there’s not. All the other parties policies have no common ground to even make a coalition to make an alternative. Some not even interested in governing and are happy to be perennial opposition (SF, AAA/PBP). So until these parties start trying to work together to make a government alternative, which it’s shown the can do with the water protest, then not much will change.
It’s not that bizarre at all. It’s been one or the other since 1926. That’s the sad part.
But we were never bankrupted (virtually) before – through FF incompetence and corruption. Parties like that don’t usually return to power, except here!!
With the media in a ménage-a-trois with Fine Gael/Fianna Fáil and public not seeing this, we’re always going to get this.There is no daily that speaks for the alternative.
Peter that just doesn’t fly. There’s never been as much access to news and information.
Not long now we’ll be just like the US , it’ll eventually be a 2 horse race giving us the illusion of a choice
Fcuk off Enda  you idiot
@Jonny bee:Where have you been until now?I don’t know how we managed until now without your reasoned and well thought out argument…
Who cares what parasite leads a party of parasites. One out of touch fantasist replacing another out of touch fantasist. Anyway, it all a deflection game from the scandals and corruption these parasites are mired in.
All the rats fighting for power!
Kenny, Coveney, Leo, Fitzgerald who cares witch of them is leader. It’s the same right wing FG/FF government
Awful to see one of Ireland’s finest crisis leaders, who saved the country from the abyss through its darkest hours, hounded out of office by a biased media.
I think it’s a pity it took the whistleblower scandal to bring him down. All the broken promises from his original election mandate meant nothing to the electorate. Good riddance to bad rubbish.
alphanautica: with respect Mr. Kenny did nothing more nor less than follow the directions given to hom by the EU/IMF. Much like assembling a piece of Ikea furniture Mr. Kenny proved himself a very capable “Flat pack” Taoiseach.
Alphanautica. You need help.
Alpha the Irish people tightened their belts and worked their socks off. That’s what turned this country around.
Come back Bertie and Cowen – all is forgiven?
Alanine Pipeline. You need help as well.
As well as a lot of money from the EU, DB – we still owe €200 billion +….
it was a question ray – one you are unable to answer…
Alanine Pipeline. Come back Bertie and Cowen -all is forgiven. Was a question, you really need help.
It’s an inside party cloak and dildo job the media have a mild view of what everyone that ever paid a cent in tax feels, he is a gonner !
Ray – ‘help’ is the only word you know, for everything…
Ray…you need help m8…
Alanine Pipline. Help. It’s out there all you need to do is ask.
get help ray
Alanine Pipeline. It’s not your fault.
get help m8 – and a job…
Alanine Pipeline. I work. Helping people like yourself.
Troll level unlocked.
“Awful to see one of Ireland’s finest crisis leaders, who saved the country from the abyss through its darkest hours, hounded out of office by a biased media.”And this children is the reason you shouldn’t take crack!
Are you for real
@alphanautica: the people of mayo should be denied the right to vote. They have a history of voting for lying corrupt gombeens, but they crossed the line with this moron. They are the most despised people in Ireland.
@joe o hare: Close it off you clown ! Irish politics is full of gombeens ..not confined to one county….
Glad to know that the health service is only a bit of a joke to be had amongst themselves on a Sunday evening. They are fast becoming worse then useless
Another Fine Gael implosion. And the sad reality is, Fianna Fáil will be the major beneficiary in this country of sheep. When are we going to wake up and rid ourselves of the scourge that is fg/fg/lab/sf? Start from scratch with something completely different. It should be clear by now that our current system is a complete failure.
Delusions of grandeur, he royally screwed up the HSE and now wants to fail again? Harris needs a reality check, moron.
Going from DUMB TO DUMBER if Simon Harris gets leadership, like letting kindergarten cop on loose
Ends will go only to be be replaced by another crony rat . Ah well I’ll still be happy to see him go like a schoolchild would be to see the head master drop dead
So this goon Flanagan does not have the cop on to foresee his “joke” could be come public knowledge but he ensures us all the economic migrants will be properly vetted.
Party members gutting each other,so much for stability.shower of lying ……..
I’ve delved into the academic achievements of said health minister.. Riveting stuff is our Simon Harris in the world of journalism. I’ve said before he is about as qualified to be in leinster house as a circus seal clapping for fish food in Courtney’s. In his black suit and white shirt it’s hard to tell the difference
Harris is a pip squeak…..
Flanagan now says that his comments was a joke, he is some joker, he is making an idiot of himself. The joke is now on him, what a clown to have in Foreign Affairs, of course he probably learned that from Inda telling fibs. They are all a bunch of Idiots.
Nooo I’m going to miss Donald Trump drop kick Pinocchio Kenny and his bowl of weed down the White House Lawn all the way back to bankrupt Eire.
Well talk of Harris as leader of this Country would be terrible.OK, if FG want him as leader of their party, but NEVER as Taoiseach. He is a terrible looking wimp. I always thought off Charlie Flanagan as a bit of a Gobsihte, but he now puts the tin hat on it. Micheal Martin is the man for Taoiseach, bring on an election.
Who cares?
Sadly I saw the clip. Disgusting. as for Bruton in the leadership race ,please no he was on record as condescendingly speaking for all Irish that we don’t have a possible future outside the EU why even vote. This year is one to watch ,I’m hoping many more Brussels elitists like our lot are reminded that others than think for themselves.
@Seán Domhnall O’Sullivan: Can always go back to farming lol.
That has been the problem with Inda down the years, acts the clown too much, talks off the cuff too much, gives the media too many chances to tackle him. Not listening to advisors, a bullsihter when the chips are down.
Kenny is full of arrogance.
Enda is totes lols
Enda seems to think it’s ok for Mayo’s sick children to travel to St James’ s proposed children’s hospital even though Blanchardstown would save their lives.
hes hanging on for paddy day and his twenty second photo op with trump.
https://www.facebook.com/Kenyans.co.ke/videos/1605059412843724/Should have been that one instead?
Has the country not suffered enough of him at this stage?
No fooking way anybody that supports others that try to ruin a mans life should not be allowed in government fg ff are the most despicable partys to have ever walked this island.
This is just deflecting from  people on trollies and the Tusla dodgy dossier.
@Enda Ireland: exactly enda the media just cant get away from the massive despicable corruption going on in our state the media is a disgrace fg should be turfed out on their ear.
You’re having a laugh…..………
@Cranium: plenty of idiots clapping him into their towns for daft personal appearances .. disgusting and shemeul following the McCabe scandal
@enda Ireland. Sure McCabe has already been forgotten. Announce a tribunal and change the narrative. It’s all about the party leadership now. Noirin, frances and Katherine can breathe easily.
Who in their right mind could possible think this…. Here under this man’s government and leadership.The number of homeless people in Ireland has reached a record high.. article right here on the journal. Taking the P,SS now are fg.
@Enda, absolutely, I was thinking the same for a couple of days. How the hell did we go from the serious events of last week to this circus. It’s a bit of a flimsy premise to start a heave on. He kept everything at arms reach, which is pretty much what 90% of all the TDs did. It’s smoke and mirrors, and long grass stuff.
@bobby phelan Not a fan of FF or FG but when the left wing parties start making sensible policy proposals and present a genuine alternative I might agree. SF have had plenty of practice trying to govern NI. That’s a runaway success isn’t it? Using the excuse of forced measures by Westminster is a cop out…the same cop out that the incumbent in Leinster house give regarding Brussels. In this case better to go with the more experienced negotiators. Perhaps not Kenny but not any of the mostly naive left.
Dail has revenue raising powers, northern assembly does not, so how can you equate the block grant from British treasury to FG passing the buck yo Brussels is trolling  supreme.
You said mostly, please explain
Is this for real. He told the Europeans that we were hours away from having the army standing around the atms. They are still busting their holes laughing at us for leaving him there for so long
There should be a ‘I’m not even going to dignify that with a response’ option.
@tom FlynnI think he’d be perfect. After he’s replaced as Taoiseach he would be our version of Prince Philip.
Just go already.
Once he’s gone I never want to hear his name again
After the way he bent over the Irish citizen during the alleged “bail out”? No thanks no need for a servile person for these talks….
Good god no. I want the message to be that waste of space liar politicians are not wanted in this countries and the next Taoiseach will go the same way unless they considerably raise their game. Let him slink off into obscurity with his golden pension as that was all he was after anyway.
I wouldn’t leave him in charge of scooping up dog crap never mind brexit
No. Just go.
No, back to Mayo and out to grass is the only sensible option at this stage.
Here’s a better pollWould you like to see this incompetent, lying, servile buffoon in a pillory?
Of course his daughter Aoibhinn Kenny is expected to take his seat when he does step down, she’ll have the Party machine behind her and Ireland’s legacy of nepotism and cronyism will continue.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: in a gene pool as small as ireland with such a big government, we’re all just three degrees of separation from a TD
No.
The guy is a moron. He couldn’t spell negotiate; has already sold the Irish people out to vulture funds and now CETA; has failed to tackle criminality in the banks; has left the Moriarty Tribunal report to gather dust; doesn’t give a damn about those in poverty or homeless or facing eviction.Kenny also leads a group of senior Fine Gael politicians that aid, abet, condone and protect swathes of white collar criminals inc price fixing cartels and he peddles the agenda of Davos, Bilderberg and the ECB. Minister for Brexit? The man is an embarrassment.
I’m saying no to Enda cos he said himself it’s not necessary to have one (even though I think it is) why have him in a role he doesn’t find important other than to keep him at the trough. He can go back to teaching or just as far away as possible
Kenny links up and cows down to the leaders of the bigger countries in Europe. And he knows his days are numbered as leader of Fianna Gael, he would use it as a way to land a job in Europe. We need a stronger negotiator, someone who realises the importance of keeping our strong links the UK solid
Eh, no.After last week I reckon its a good idea to keep Captain Catastraf*ck away from any brief of importance.
You should get a kangaroo court convened.
@johnny reynolds: LOL!The thoughts of enda tripping over a flower pot as he tried to avoid being questioned by Ursula Halligan, the Julie Andrews of Irish journalists, is pretty comical all right.
@For Connolly: Watching it is even funnier.
Great to see all the shinnerbots confirming their own bias all the time on these here articles. #OneLove
Sounding a lot like diarmuid there. Any chance of him putting in an appearance? Its always nice to have the matching pair….
@FifiJamming: what about the yfg. #clownstotheleftofmejokerstotheright.
Joe, it’s clowns to the left, jokers to the far left on here.
Shinnerbot Connolly..Is Gorry going to the funeral in North Korea?
Oh look! @FifiJamming and @Diarmuid channelling their little Innershits! What a lovely matching pair :)
Only boggers and his own family would want to see this clown continue on in any capacity. Sling your hook Enda.
No. But no doubt he will be an mep just like that dick Phil Toner!
Just want him gone thanks
@Science of beer: and soon.
Maybe he could reprise his role as Mrs Doubtfire?
Haaaaha BingoBongo
@Bingobango: “Hellllooooooooo”
Considering he has no spine at all, not one original thought and not a care for and be but Enda. The best thing he could to is off back to where ha came from and back to teaching… (Something completely useless and based on lies…. Religion for example)
The constitution mandates 15 ministerial posts, and we already have 15 ministries, so it’s not constitutionally feasible. Unless a dept is eliminated or he becomes a super junior minister with a non voting seat at cabinet.
Your comment is too sensible Ted.
Seismic shift, Man with 2 pints, army guarding ATM’S Enda he’ll no
His tenure is clearly untenable after the last week but given his experience, political connections at home and abroad and in particularly within the EU due to Ireland’s recovery within the eurozone I think it makes a lot of sense to keep him as a Brexit minister. Whether the incoming Taoiseach/FG leader wants to keep the most successful FG leader around is another thing. And please, my dear Shinners, before you start disliking this post and commenting on how bad FG/Enda are and the usual go to comments you leave, this is much bigger than Enda/FG. There is a high possibility, due to the UKs hard brexit decision, that Ireland is going to have a tough time economically from Brexit after a tough period of austerity. Now is the one time where Ireland needs full Dail bipartisanship to ensure we don’t get screwed three ways from Sunday during Brexit.
@Dáibh Tett: cop on edna is the village idiot of Europe he is pitied and laughed at, we would need somebody that was on our side, somebody who would demand respect.
@Dáibh Tett: Your right it’s much bigger then Enda hence those who think he’d be a disaster….
Daibh I think you have flu. He’s no good for either the McCabe family or the country. He has to FINALLY show respect to both and resign. However he’s a clingon and will have to be scrapped out of office.
@Daibh Sadly, my extensive experience with Enda Kenny suggests that he is a man of little competence who relies on a cabal of senior civil servants and advisors for every word that comes out of his mouth. Personally, I wouldn’t put him minding chickens. He represents all that is wrong with Irish politics.
Leo would do a much better job, or Simon…anyone but that idiot Enda, an embarrassment of a leader, parish pump politics personified!
No than you , if he comes out with utter b/s with advisors could you imagine the crap without them.
You can tell from the thumbnail,  this is a troll poll. You gotta pay the troll toll folks
An unbearable man. Can’t stomach any news right now while the head of this indignant party attempts to put the focus back on leadership. The clowns who will show up in Mayo n elsewhere to welcome this clown at this stage are totally part of the problem and they should hang their heads in shame. Preck of a man
Enda is the vice president of the European Peoples Party & his  boss is  Merkel. Enda like the obedient poodle as Sarkozy shown does everything to suit the EU federal kapo  mass migration austerity agenda. Enda shouldn’t be allowed make any decisions like the other traitors in FF and Lab, SF and others that have sole Irish future generations prosperity to a foreign agenda.
Personally on the back of his ringing endorsement from his FG party Colleagues, and the acquiescence of FF I personally think that he should remain as leader of FG! After all I heard them singing the mans praises during the vote of confidence, extolling his virtues and commending his leadership! I say keep him as leader of FG!
@Karl’s: like the reverse psychology of that one. If they want out, keep them in.
*@Jarlath: damn auto-correct.
Minster for Bill shit he should be! He s good at that.
Any chance of voting FCUK NO
Can’t find the “Fcuk No!” Option!
Given that his government openly revealed their negotiating hand by saying during the Greek negotiations that they wouldnt even ask for a debt writeoff (Noonan remember), it bodes ill for Brexit negotiations involving this FG leadership
I absolutely would have him negotiate Brexit. Enda understands politics and the workings of it. He is a very very skilled negotiator, make no mistake.I understand everybody’s anger but anger solves nothing.
The journal is turning into a Comedy fest lately
@SomeRandomIrishGuy: comedy horror
Maybe Ireland Break It  minister?
They are like cockroaches.  No matter what you do you can never get rid of them. Minister for Brexit – another cozy quango to reward loyal suits which will be doing what precisely? Nothing. If incompetency is a requirement for that job he is well suited candidate.
I have disdain for Bellenda as much as the next person but it’s hard to deny his legitimate value in this area.
@Seán J. Troy: he’s an incompetent parish orientated opportunist ,he doesn’t give a crap bout the Mayo ppl and yet he’s away even today and locals letting him shake the hands of their children – disgraceful stuff. They’d want to roar exactly what they think of the McCab stuff and corruption but sure isn’t he a local celebrity. An outrage.
I wouldn’t dispute most of that but he’s very well liked and respected in Europe which is all that matters here.
@Seán J. Troy: He is not respected in Europe, he may be liked by some as he is spineless and stands up to nobody.  He would be a total disaster for Ireland given a role like that.
He will get a cosy job as the Euro and the EU falls apart?
Can we have  a minstress for Feminism please cause all men are evil and bad
Isn’t that Stephen donnelly make-up job …?
Jesus Christ..
http://l7.alamy.com/zooms/19835b812c014408a421992f47b34b08/enda-kenny-nicolas-sarkozy-european-council-hands-cf77rn.jpg
Christ no!Just want rid of him and his back-stabbing lot completely.
So everybody knows who they don’t want but have no idea who they do want.That’s clever.
Farts are dangerous things… Only joking…
To hell with Brexit minister!We need a united ireland minister for reunification.Solve all the problems at once. Get funding for it from Europe, make it happen fix broken Ireland for good instead of all these sticking plaster red tape border solutions proposed by the brits who imposed this shit on us, destroyed our intricate peace deal and is tearing Ireland apart again for their own selfish interest. We need to let Kenny go and elect a new strong leader that can kick Teresa may up the arse instead of being her lap-dog. Ireland and its people have been a good investment for Europe they’ll do it again, the Germans are sympathetic with our reunification hopes. Make it happen!!!
Make sure there are no flowerpots near our taoiseach as he might fall over them.He would be trampled on by Theresa May and a laughing stock once again.
The most damaging of all to both FF and FG is their backing of Noirin O’Sullivan. Still can’t get my head around why she is still in her position. Maurice McCabe is only the start of what is to come down the tracks. A senior garda is involved in  dealing drugs and the whistleblower is being intimidated.http://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/mick-wallace-claims-garda%C3%AD-involved-in-drugs-trade-1.2034029
@watersedge: it is extremely puzzling how far FF and FG are pushing their support for Commissioner O’Sullivan.Yesterday, Jim O’Callaghan and Regina Doherty voiced their very strong support for Commissioner O’Sullivan.My impression is that FF and FG wand to send a strong message to the Charletontribunal Tribunal that Commissioner O’Sullivan enjoys strong and unconditional support.Of course, there is the concern,  as there is any place of employment, that the remaining on active duty of the Commissioner could hamper the inquiry. The Commissioner will be around to direct and to instruct the legal team fir An Garda Siochana.
@Tony Daly: Yes, she would be in a position to influence the inquiry, have access to tamper with files/ evidence.
@watersedge Might be because she is female in senior position….Has the support of the media who want more women in senior positions….
She is not fit for purpose and should step aside without prejudice. I wouldn’t mind the media, especially the Independent with their slimy, missing in action “crime reporter.” The garda press office must be on overtime. The amount of checkpoint / speeding stories in the journal in the past few days is quite noticeable.Trying to smooth over irreparable public confidence?
John, what makes you think she has the support of the media? She’s a person performing terribly, time to get rid.
I think the pair of them should be taken to the supervet , a pair of donkeys
@FlopFlipU: Could do this to them lol.https://www.facebook.com/Kenyans.co.ke/videos/1605059412843724/?hc_ref=NEWSFEED
Surprised theres been no mention of the new SF leader in northern ireland going to pay homage to the ra lads that got lit up like Christmas and swiss cheesed.
PMSL.Or her cousin convicted of the “good republican” crime of fuel smuggling.
There’s was a big difference in, “Make America Great Again” that won the election,and “Lets Keep the Recovery Going” which was a massive flop, a disaster.Thats a Fact.You might be able to liberally and imaginatively find some sort of comparisons in the politics, but the individuals are like chalk and cheeze.Trump, successful businessman outside of politics, whats kenny done, inside or outside of politics? I really can’t think of anything.
@Adrian:You we’re doing well until you said “successful businessman” If he stuck his inheritance into the bank when he got it, he would be a wealthier man now.
Point is trumps the wealthier man. I think Steve Jobs lost half a billion in a day, he said it was very character building. Kenny looks like he was just taking up space for 40 years.
Trump is what you get if you morph DOB and Kenny.
In fairness I know the leader gets the chop when things go wrong, but the finger should be pointed at the FG/FF parties, the mess we are in is not down to one individual, if you want to point a finger at an individual it should be Michael Martin, he was sitting at the cabinet table when this country went under……..
@Peadar Ó Gréacháin: Leaders set the tone and the values.
I think we’re entering a new political “Age”, following on from Feudalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenement, Nationalism and Democracy.  Its a revolt for real democracy. People want to actually choose their representatives – not merely elected members of the same families that have been in charge for generations and who keep their people in office by imposing them as candidates. Richard Bruton for example was deselected by his constituency party before the 2011 election but Party HQ imposed him as a candidate. Same happened with Arthur Spring before the 2011 election.Lets have a US style primary system so we can actually pick who we want to represent us.
@Rosa Parks: Meant to say “Richard Bruton for example was deselected by his constituency party before the 2016 election”. Correction.
Enda Kenny was blessed with Danny Kaye’s looks but not his comedic talent. Danny Kaye could have learnt a few skills from Enda when rehearsing for the Walter Mitty role.
So the author of this piece is saying he knows what DOESN’T lie ahead, (there being no such thing as clairvoyance not scientifically proven anyway) in that he says in the pull-quote that those who say they do are just plain wrong.  In a way, isn’t that kind of the same thing?
If these clowns could bang their heads together we might have a decent country to live it with decent politicians. I heard Brian Hayes MEP stating it was a ‘very tough week for Enda’…..a week?? Tell that to Maurice McCabe…tell that to the 1000′s on the waiting list for years for an appointment to see a consultant…tell that to the homeless living in hotels if they are lucky. These clowns are so far out of touch it’s just a back slapping exercise. Disgusting behavior.
Brian Hayes is a disgusting, obnoxious person and nothing he says should be taken seriously
Coventry very popular in Cork. Got elected on the last count.
So Enda makes up stories and all the FF and FG spongers vote confidence or abstain from voting for him, Yet  a member of the Garda tell the truth and has facts to back it up gets branded a sex abuser and is denigrated. What kind of people are these politicians do they not know we can see this stuff happening.
Listening to them is nauseating.. do they think the people are that naive to not,   have figured out that enda is not the only problem.. removing enda doesn’t remove the problem because the problem is the culture .  Something they are all genius at having mastered.   Doesn’t matter you gets to be top dog Because unless you clean house . Then nothing as changed. Just one out but one of the same cloth in.
Who.. has changed.
I couldn’t give a Toss ….. same sh!te all over again …. it’s just going to swing back and forth every time …FF…FG…FF…FG …… never going to change….. now I’m off for a pint ….
@RobbieL:  This whole furore about the FG leadership is just a smokescreen (concocted by party PR people in cahoots with the media).It is designed to divert the spotlight and public attention AWAY from the garda corruption story.  The spotlight needs to firmly back on Fitzgerald, O’Sullivan,  Zappone,  Tusla & all the rest of them.FG spend a fortune on PR and communications teams to laise with the media, to manage & spin their public image.
@ Zoe , 100% correct. Normally kenny / martin & co would be using the old “Adams this McGuiness that and Shinners the other” to deflect from their own incompetence. They know they have played that card to death and now it’s an in house deflection. This is perhaps the biggest pantomime they have pulled yet. This is to take the pressure off Fitzgerald and O’Sullivan in fear of the shitstorm they can create for ffglab.
Couldn’t agree more. .its fn disgrace. .its like a revolving door. Each time a change is due. There should be changes made like reduced salary and perks .none of them know what it’s like to be without money ..
Harris would implode if he was selected..
I heard the interview.Nearly haemorrhaged at the prik.
As a former FG voter and member although over a decade ago I have to say that they, as a party, have lost all credibility. Not only did they throw away the opportunity the people gave them but they betrayed the people’s trust and are now fast sinking in a mire of their own making. Mr. Kenny has created an ethos within the party similar to that of FF under C.J. Haughey in 80′s. It is time for him and the rest of his nocturnal associates to depart the political stage. I sincerely doubt that either of the present two front runners will be more than the same old wine in new bottles.
@Mark Andrew Salmon:  “same old wine in new bottles” captures it perfectly.
@Tony Daly: Nearly right Tony.Same old wine “in cheap plastic packs”,is more to my way of thinking.
@Mark Andrew Salmon: And this long goodbye farce – will he completely emulate the Bert with one last mistake ?
@lavbeer: I was thinking what an affront to the country that ff/fg have grasped the treads of power since the McCabe revelations and then it struck me, leave Kenny there as ff/fg do their merry dance while the whole country knowingly cringes and watches on. ff/fg have managed to drag the dail as low as I have ever seen it
@Tony Daly:same old shyte in unblocked drains
truth
It was mentioned the other day that kenny wants to hang around till April to become th longest serving Fine Geal leader/taoiseach in history. If this is true, at the time of possible the biggest justice scandal in the history of the state, it shows a breathtaking ego and arrogance which could only come from a man whose life experience has been staring out a window of the Dail since 1975.
FG are going the way of FF in 2011 and that is good. I will be surprised if they win more than 30 seats in the forthcoming general election. The really sad thing is that their losses will transfer, to a huge extent, to FF. The Irish people will never learn.
@Blue MARIGOLD: Don’t forget, despite Michael Martin strutting around like Terence Bigballs, FF had their second worst election in the history of the state last year, so fingers crossed.
Don’t worry buddy one day real soon massive change is coming to Ireland one way or another. Politics has failed it’s a broken institution that didn’t serve all the people just the connected few. Bye Bye blackbird.
There must be a few more state assets to offload before Kenny is allowed to resign from office as there is no obvious reason for him still being in position.
@For Connolly: I thought he is the longest running FG Taoiseach or am I wrong?
@Aaron O’Leary: Aaron, it was either FG taoiseach or FG leader, I was busy concentrating on something remotely important at the time.I take it that its FG leader, as him being made taoiseach twice would have made him longest serving FG taoiseach by now??
Not great alternatives anywhere u look though is there?
Ironic seeing resident shinnerbot “For” Connolly outraged about Garda Maurice McCabe.Where was Sinn Féin’s concern over the murder of Garda Jerry McCabe?I remember his murderer being welcomed home by Martin Ferris, convicted PIRA gun runner and senior member of Sinn Féin.
@ Diarmuid , ffs !!!!, You really can’t help yourself can you.
@Diarmuid: Dermo, I notice you still refer to me as the ‘resident shinnerbot’ but haven’t been able to explain why I take the opposite view to SF on stuff.Have you come up with an explanation yet, or are you happy to just keep looking silly?
Jamming, your ‘disagreements’ are superfluous stuff. You’re obviously an employee of Sinn Fein. I hope you’re following the case of your fellow employee in the employment courts.
“For” Connolly / Were Jammin / SF Press OfficeOk champ, happy to play this game.Say something materially negative about SF and the PIRA…
PS “I voted by Michael D” does not count.
@ Diarmuid , well said and spoken like a true dyed in the wool brainwashed blueshirt . Keep the party going and protect kenny and martin at all costs. Keep up the good work.
Yea diarmuid, jamming thinks whistle blowers are good, unless your name is Eamon Collins
Jamming pretends to believe in the integrity of the state security services, except for the life of gerry McCabe.
@Mike. Nope, I just don’t want the political wing of a terrorist organisation in power in our country. Pretty reasonable position, held by the vast majority of Irish people.@Fifi Just don’t mention murdered prison officer Brian Stack to a shinnerbot. Their hypocrisy is outstanding.
Jamming reckons Maria Cahill was only ‘allegedly’ raped last week. Despite his organisation having convened a kangaroo court against the perpetrator.
Always nice to relax over a quiet pint of a Sunday, read the comments directed at me, and know I’m doing something right. Keep going lads, your vitriol sustains me x
It’s not vitriol, it’s pity.
@For Connolly: Fifi must be Diarmuid’s boyfriend.
Diarmuid, if it was an article on frickin cooking you’d manage to get a ” shinnerbot ” in there.FFS man get a life.
Oh I think people will look at your account name and the way your posts from it are directed at ‘jammin’, and will know who is most to be pitied.
@Guy-who-thinks-he’s-James-ConnollyCome up with anything yet?
Oh you mean besides me being critical of their position on Brexit, seanad abolition, their position on the legalisation of soft drugs, giving Chris Andrews menbership, and so on Not the brightest dermo, are ye?
Chris Andrews?!So cute!The Shinnerbot doth protest too much.
Dermo, i noticed you still haven’t offered an explanation as to how I can be a shinnerbot and hold different views to SF on many issues. You fot that explanation for us, or is looking silly just your thing??
Hope your “movement” doesn’t consider you a traitor for your moral stand on Chris Andrews.We all know what happens to “traitors”.Hope you’re ok hun xoxo
So, no explanaton. Good lad.
A brave little shinnerbot, will give you that much..Did the soft drugs help with your courageous decision on Chris Andrews?
Nope, read that twice, didn’t find an explanation. Got one for us dermo?
Don’t worry about Chris Andrews.. he’ll feel at home as a junior coalition lapdog for Michael Martin.Your boundless bravery will be rewarded.#pray4Connolly
Eh, was your explanation part of that bile?
“Bad things happen, when good people do nothing”- For Connolly, 2017.#ChrisAndrews #pray4Connolly
@Diarmuid: Jamming can’t answer questions, only bully and deflect.
“First they came for the Shinnerbots, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Shinnerbot.Then they came for the Terrorists, and I did not speak out—Because I was not a Terrorist.Then they came for the Chris Andrews, and I did not speak out—Because I was not Chris Andrews.Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me.”#pray4Connolly
Brilliant diarmuid
Kenny should resign today – no more of this rubbish about setting a timetable for his departure. Varadkar, as usual, is putting his own interests first. The comments of TDs – such as Regina Doherty and Patrick O Donovan are bordering on delusional
@Blue MARIGOLD: Look on the bright side, at least we don’t have to suffer the vomit inducing comments of pre-Renua Lucinda Creighton e.g. ‘There are two men in my life. My husband and my taoiseach’. I can only imagine the guff she’d be pulling out of her hat.
I agree. Creighton’s absence from the airwaves/public life is one of the most welcome developments of the last 12 months.
Totally agree – a first for jammin…
I’m just waiting for them to claim that its Russia hacking the system is causing all the problems!
@BlueMarigold “The cost of leadership is self-interest” Simon Sinek
i want Kenny gone as much as anybody else but he is only one small part in a much bigger picture. Let’s not fool ourselves into thinking this is going to solve much of anything.
Monster Raving Looney party needed.
He will not shift before his trip to Trump.
@Michael Lynch:already in place.
May I remind these two , that they Are not celebrities, they are here to severe the people . Get on with your work and stop trying to grab headlines to boost their own profile . Sick of this sh*t . The only time I want to hear about you ( Simon and Leo) , is when you actually help an Irish citizens other than yourself. Other than that keep your ego for the mirror in the morning.
The media is doing nothing here only deflecting people away from what is a truly disgusting government who frames good guards by accusing them of rape this position that is up for grabs means nothing changes nothing for the fact of the matter fg sided with a commissioner knowing that she knew about the mccabe situation,and whats worse is ff took their side another boyle party with lots of stuff hidden in their closet.the journal wants to make this about a leadership position I say lets make it about another corrupt party that we have to deal with ff fg are like the mafia that needs to be put down once and for all…
If anyone thinks all this FG leadership contest news is a distraction from the McCabe scandal.  It isn’t.  It shows just how serious what happened in the Dail last week was and it shows just how badly handled it was and once again it calls into question how tightly knit all aspects of our ‘elite’ are.  We knew there were protected disclosures from a few Garda whistleblowers with Frances Fitzgerald for most of 2016, but it all just was let slide until events caught up with FG last week.  This is incompetent at best and seems to indicate worse motives.
@David A. Murray: The fact that FF and FG have not demanded that Noirin O’Sullivan stand aside without prejudice while an investigation takes place speaks volumes. They are all a tangled matted weave of deceit and coverup.
Putting new shiny wrapping on a stinking pile of manure does not change the fact that it is a stinking pile of manure underneath. But you would be surprised how many will get fooled by it.
@ Brian, where are they going to get the new shiny wrapping.???, it’s rotting from the inside out.
“Whatsapp message from minister says Tánaiste supports Simon Harris”Lol, bye bye FG – hello election………….
Harris is such a chatterbox that even when he wants to stay quiet, he has to say something!No intention of engaging in idle speculation by always willingly engaging in spreading FG fake news, spin and bs.
Ah, the usual waffle we’re hearing from these self-deluded Blueshirts & Blueblouses…anyway FG is doomed already so too late!
Enda is everything that’s wrong with politics in this country. Everytime he opens his mouth he puts his foot in it. If all he is interested is a record of being the longest party leader he has failed the people of Ireland
40 odd years in Dáil Éireann, brought the economy back from the bring , unemployment down from 15% to 8%. Constantly under media scrutiny. Like to see you do better.
I’d consider myself a bit of a floating voter, FG are out of the equation after the mess they’ve made of the country so it matters little to me which one of the above lizards get the gig.
@Frank Cauldhame:FF are your pick then? Last time FF were in power the IMF were called in.As for SF, the less said the better about their economic competency.
@Fred Jensen: “As for SF, the less said the better about their economic competency.”How about less ‘less said’ and more explaining which of their economic policies you question and why.Display your work….
@Fred Jensen:FF, no way, bad gubu memories !
@Fred Jensen: Well the damage from FF and FG will outlive me and probably my kids as well
@Fred Jensen: 3 people were fished out of rivers in the country this week. All of them suicides, two women and one man.  Needless deaths, and this FG led minority government is responsible.
Wait for it now people!!!! The door knockers are getting there hands ready. There practising there lies o sorry speeches. What drivel will we given this time. It won’t be much different than the last pack of lies.
Didn’t take long for what happened this week and the shameful scandal on whistleblowers to be now all about FG .. their only interest it seems who gets to be top dog .. how quick they get it and For all the media to be fawning all over them.  Self interest before anything else because as they were voting full confidence in enda they were busy organising the coup using MC cabe as the catalyst. No shame.
3 things in life I’ve taken a dislike to..FFFGAnd Coffee cream biscuits ☺
@Willy Malone: If Leo was a biscuit he’d dunk himself….
What did Coffee cream biscuits ever do on you?
If anyone really cares about their country, they really should stop voting for these incompetent clowns in FF and FG.
How many times do they have to wreck the country before people cop on!
That is exactly it… stop voting the the same clowns in . Very simple.
Mehole Martin sat in the cabinet that sold this country down the Swannee, he was a senior member of the government that cost this country what was left of its sovereignty and now he is the most popular leader in the opinions polls. Mind you he’s not up against much
Clever enough from the Blueshirts. Let Kenny go to the US, sit on Donald’s lap and get his belly rubbed. When he gets back he gets replaced so FG can go to the electorate without that stain coming up at the doors.
Coventry is sneaky cute hoor,he wants endas lapdogs to support him and he is throwing varadker under the bus.
Coveney translation, “Don’t ye all be laughing at the National Clown on his way out!”
The people of Ireland want Enda to go because of all the new taxes that Enda and his pals brought in and yet no one wants Michael Martin at the same time. What a mess?
All this talk of Kenny being such an experienced Prime Minister and that Ireland needs him at European talks is absolute rubbish. Let a new person take his place as soon as possible and get shut with this crazy roadshow that’s distracting Government from doing what its paid to do. Bring on the General Election and let the people decide who should be in charge.
The people won’t decide who will be in charge. The politicians will as nobody will have a majority.
Coveney Inarticulate! Varadkar lacking Etiquette! Neither suitable!
Enda Kenny has two even more successive potential leaders to folloW HIM.FG travels more and more inexorably to the right, reinforcing neo-liberal and laissez-faire approach of Kenny and Noonan.
Leo just can’t hide his ambition.
And the back stabbing commences……
Neither of them have the qualification to do the jobs they hold. Yet they receive mammoth salaries
This shows that these f**kwits are detached from reality. Who the hell would vote for a party led by the toddler. Will he need to get permission from mammy and daddy first?
@Max Johnson Powers: Have to agree. All parties engaged in party first politics – no one gives a flying duck about the homeless, people on trollies, children waiting on surgeries – party first people, then hope for the best for the rest of us.
I would say this “toddler” has accomplished a whole lot more than you have by time you were 30. Also how are we meant to encourage the best of our young people to get involved in politics if you use degrading language like that, typical Begrudging someone because they’ve achieved more than you.
@Jude Perry: What exactly has he ‘achieved’ jude, rather than weaseling himself to a position of import?
@For Connolly: Really?
It really goes to show the urgency Enda Kenny puts on the matter of his ‘will he or won’t he’ resignation when he can put it off until Wednesday to talk to his party. It doesn’t matter what happens in the meantime as defectors sharpen their knives and potential leaders jockey for position. These people who say that he deserves space are only interested in protecting their own careers and think nothing about saving the country from further scandals. If Kenny had any backbone he would address the country, to clarify his position and offer his resignation staight away.
@Chris Kirk: In fairness he spoke to them last Wednesday and will again next Wednesday. The upstarts are trying to grow a pair. The likes of Farrell who champions garda corruption on the floor of DE. There is no need to make complete fools of themselves in the media.If Enda does step down – should be an election
@lavbeer: If Enda steps down then there won’t be anyone to trigger an election, anyway It takes a government leader to trigger an election.When Theresa May took over from Cameron it didn’t trigger an election, merely brought in a new leader with a reformed cabinet. Cameron didn’t hang around after losing the In/Out Brexit referendum.
@Chris Kirk: I did say “should” Chris !!! We don’t get to elect our leader in Ireland.  The membership of FG is less than 0.5% of the population. The last time these people had a civil war – we got fools like Reilly & Hogan elected.Leo getting the leadership will trigger an election within weeks I think. Coveney would survive longer but FG will have elected MM as Taoiseach within the year either way
Zip and zag should brought in to head FG.COULDN’T do any worst than the weasels we have at the moment
Leo and Simon – the very definition of two bald men fighting over a comb.
Not Simon Harris, God forbid, he still has marks as pampers around his legs, very clueless, as minister of health.
The sheer cheek of Blueblouse Fitzy urging Dracula Harris to be leader of the BlueShirt Party!! I suspect Dracula Harris may have played a part in the Tusla/Maurice McCabe affair after he was called by Maurice’s wife via phone on the 18th last month and why did he palm the couple off onto meeting Zappone but not himself a week later? Did he immediately let Fitzy & IndaKinny know what went on after Mrs McCabe’s phone call? After all, his version of events following the involvement of HSE doesn’t add up.
What a shower of w ankers
The usual outbreak of ‘phuktardery’ in Dail Éireann again.
Micheal O Leary should be the new leader
@Aidan O connor: I was thinking of Phil Hogan, the guy who invented property tax and water charges. We need someone like that to focus the minds on the lead up to the next general election.
Which new FG leader candidate will be most committed to damaging Sergeant McCabe?
It’s not “till”, it’s “’til” as in “until”.A farmer can till his land, a cashier puts money in a till.I would expect that English would be a fairly basic requirement for journalism.
Both are perfectly acceptable, Brian.https://www.englishgrammar.org/until-and-till/
Ends has done a stand-up job in office – GC Noirin O’Sullivan should be in the dock, and step down. There are difficult times ahead and we need this mature leadership, rather than FF flutes calling the tune, or the populist Varadkar.
@John Tuld: “Ends has done a stand-up job”Ironically, you should have a job doing stand-up
Agree but Varadkar is a leader.
@John Tuld: As a fantasist he has. Makes up conversations in his head, totally out of touch with the lives of Irish citizens and how his neo-liberal policies have destroyed the lives of ordinary people.
@Simon Peters: What has Varadkar ever led? As much a fantasist as Kenny is.
@John Tuld: obvious f.f troll. The only party with anything to gain in this halfwitted moron staying leader of f.g is f.fI said it before and I will say it again, every group picks their best to be leader and if Edna is the best f.g have the whole party should disband.
Managed successions as attempted by the Enda supporters do not always work out as Brian Cowen discovered when anointed FF leader in 2008 without a contest. The FG Aristocracy need to move over for new ideas and people.
If can not keep WhatsApp messages safe how they keep the country safe and what makes them deserve to be the leader ?.
I didn’t think WhatsApp was hackable – bit worried now!
I will stick with Fine Gael. Kenny is an idiot. Always was. Never a leader. Filled a vacuum that nobody wanted to fill. If I look at the political landscape what choice do I have? I work in the Private Sector. I am not a member of a Union. I see teachers, the Gardai, prison officers get lovely pay checks and pensions – for what? Because FF paud them off. SF and Labour will do the same. I hate to say it but Renua were the only ones asking for accountability in the PS and they were vilified by the Press and Unions. We belong to the era of ‘money grows on trees’ mentaility. I for one am not ashamed to say that FG are the only party that will stick up for the Private Sector workers. All the others want to take as much tax as possible yo give to the wasters in the Public Sector.
@Simon Peters:“Filled a vacuum that nobody wanted to fill.” …… as leader of FG I assume you mean – 15 years is one long vacuum“only party that will stick up for the Private Sector workers” …… certainly the first to raid their pensions anyway – and a permanent raid at that taking from the fund value
Lavbeer, well put the party of morality, now it’s more like the party of mortality in more ways than one !
SimonDid FG stick up for the private sector workers in Dunnes or Ryanair?Workers on zero hour contracts who can be told ‘fxxx off home, we don’t need you today’
So lavbeer who are you pinning your hopes on? If you worked in the Private Sector who would you vote for?
@Tom. What can FG do about zero contract hours. The so-called Unions can do nothing about them. Ih I forgot Unions only work when you are in the Public Sector.
That annoyed me more than anything. Counter-balanced by stance on Public Sector pay. At least they are trying to curb spending in Public Sector. FF will get into power and 5 years down the road back yo huge deficits again.
SimonThe governments job is to govern.The clue is in the title.The government can outlaw zero hour contracts but they chose not to.
@Simon Peters: I do work in the private sector Simon. And seen my pension statement and the thousands they took from me. FINE GAEL that was. FF and FG are one as Noonan told us. FG capitulated to the Garda and the rest of the PS are now looking for same treatment, Enda Kenny will soon be picking up a 100k tax free payment plus 30k a year for FOUR years work as a teacher 40+ years ago. That is the leadership of FG. That is how they think. Mehole is the same with his few years teaching. Privileged.For me – I vote independent in the hope sanity can be injected. Small hope but this government needs to think more than the shambolic EMC run previous one.
@Simon Peters: “ey are trying to curb spending in Public Sector. FF will get into power and 5 years down the road ”think you will find that we are now bound by EU directives in this regard. When MM takes over – put a mayo accent on him, die his hair red and marry to a FG press secretary and you will see little difference
@Simon Peters: f.g set up an nice wee earned for lots of people installing water meters, this was very successful and while it cost the taxpayers a clean fortune, one particular private individual made some day money from it.
Hope Leo does nt get it. He has not a clue of rural Ireland. He never saw outside the back door of ^The George^!
Are yis taking the p..s?
We are so lucky in Wicklow Doyle, Casey,Harris and Donnelly all support Enda. Great choice. Brady only one who doesn’t support the government .
Somebody has seen FG on Whatsapp about current leadership. Have they seen FG internal comments on Sgt McCabe?
Now I am no fan of Enda……he’s actually a bloody clown if anyone was to ask me but no one is…but there something I’d like to know is why does he need to go as leader of FG. Like why should he give that up just coz 2 of them wants the position. Why don’t they go instead.
We need someone to drain the swamp.
Good luck with that
Sherrif street is already awash with amenities. Two community centres, two schools, two playgrounds, a park, uncountable different services and programes, massive amounts of money allocated in the past to its regeneration. The problem is the people. They are just dirt. Walk down there any morning before 7 and you’ll see the state of the place, they just throw there bins out on the road because the council send a fleet of cleaning lorrys down every single morning. It’s a disgrace.
Don’t give me that crap, “the people are dirt” I can tell you now, there is better people on that street than youcould meet anywhere in the world. It’s a small minority that gives the street a very bad name, and these people commit crimes in front of the Gardai who do nothing, I seen it first hand myself, and before you ask yes I am from the area.
It’s a small majority doing major drug and illegal activities ray. But there is a large majority doing lazy things. Kids have no respect and want every thing for nothing around there. I live at mayor square and see them coming around taking and doing what they want. Filthy and sickening to a group who work hard just to afford to rent in the area.
Ah yes ray, there it is; Blame someone else!!its all the gardais fault!! If you are from the area, report the drug dealers and criminals. Help thr garda prosecute them. You are aware og thr wall of silence there i persume. That’s the problem there. No personal responsibility. It’s been ingrained in the people of sherif street for so long that they feel it’s everyone else’s fault.
@Ray James Franco Browne:  I think they should give the locals in sherriff st some brushes to clean outside their own doors there is no excuse for he dirt around the streets, oh wait they have no responsibility for outside their houses. they have everything on their doorstep and they are still moaning, there are plenty of private estates that would like to have politicans looking after their area and getting 5 million to boot!
@Ray James Franco Browne:  Well if you ‘seen’ it – do something about it !
I suppose they can twin it with LA South Central?
@cholly appleseed: Everyone is entitled to an opinion but this is out of order “They are just dirt” that is a shameful remark.
OK take a walk down there any morning before 7am and you tell me how you would describe it and they people that caused it. They are dirt
Every summer if there is a sunny spell that canal is full of cans and bottles. It isn’t the IFSC workers drinking in the sun, most are rushing off to their long commutes home. The canal is cleaned by opening the gates and flushing it all out to the Liffey, not the perfect solution but it works.The canal is even worse by North Strand. Volunteers and Waterways Ireland drain and clean it and it gets full of rubbish again. The council took away the park benches because can drinkers hung around during the daytime. I know because I used to chill there on my lunch break. Ballybough full of bin bags and illegal dumping yet turn the corner to Clonliffe Rd and it’s spotless.The government want to tax the businesses and raise 10 million euro,how about asking for a bit of personal responsibility from the residents too?
They should rebrand heroin as “happy sleepy powder” while they are at it.
Happy sleepy quarter powder
What’s with all this quarter bollox. Where is that shite coming from
They need to to name the areas next to SOBO of course;-). South of Beckett O’Caseyhttp://www.sobo.ie
How many ‘quarters’ are we going to get?
@Valthebear:We’ll be lucky if we’re not all hung, drawn, and quartered! ;)
Just shift the few lowlife families out of there, they don’t need to be taking up homes beside jobs.
Throw the “junkies/ im entitled too” brigade out of those areas and transform to apartments for workers who actually contribute to society.
Great! New lights on sherrif street. Now we can see the drug dealers shooting up !
The dealers don’t usually shoot up. Didn’t you watch The Wire? “Don’t get high on your own supply”
Waste of money. Needs a lot more then rebranding. Getting rid of the minority of undesirables will fix the problems in that shitbox of an area.
Dublins homless Quarter.
I’m sure there are plenty of nice people living around the sheriff St area, but I work in the ifsc and have to put up with a whole range of anti social behaviour every day, including an attempted mugging 2 weeks ago, a shooting around the corner, and regular drug dealing in the office entrance! Only in Ireland would the financial centre of a city, full of well educated professionals and 500k apartments be built next to one of the most dangerous areas. I’d be all for demolishing the whole area, or else build a huge well separating it from the ifsc. It doesn’t need more resources, it needs the bad element to be removed.
Hell Yeah! Let’s build that wall!
They should be be neutered to stop them breathing like rats
Too many criminals and criminal families living in the area for the redevelopment tho work. Move the nasty people out first.
Too many thug families living in Sheriff St and surrounding areas. Same goes for each of those sites named in the article. First move the problem families out of the area to areas where they won’t find it so easy to commit crime without their accomplices living next door, and then reclaim these areas by housing decent deserving people. Then this redevelopment might have a chance.
This stupid American thing of calling everywhere a quarter
A Rose by any other name.
Or ‘districts’.There’s the Hammock Hut, that’s on third. There’s Hammocks-R-Us, that’s on third too. You got Put-Your-Butt-There. That’s on third. Swing Low, Sweet Chariot… Matter of fact, they’re all in the same complex; it’s the hammock complex on third.Oh the Hammock District!That’s right.
Rebrand, such waffle. Probably means the Gov and DCC are going to run the estates into the ground, evict the remaining tennants and then give all our land to a private developer. Wash rinse repeat…… O’Devaney Gdns Sherrif St Teresa’s Gdns Dominick St St Micheals Estate Dolphin Hse Ballymun All lied to and cheated by their landlord the corrupt DCC
Hopefully it does mean that state-suckling criminals in the area will be turfed out. Best thing for it.
No. Unfortunately state suckling criminals like the NAMA developers will make a fortune from this
That’s because developers work and add value to society, unlike the parasites draining the life out of the north inner city.
Sounds great however I hope planners for this ambitious project don’t evict or move people out to other areas like they did with Ballymun. Community integration and development through proven social policy is key here versus making old building shiny again. Dublin is great, the people are great, let’s get smart and think beyond the ribbon cutting photograph.
Best thing they could do is get rid of non professionals in that area. Level it and have it remembered as a bad hiccup in the history books.
@Eye_c_u:Now let’s just change the word ‘non professionals’ to ‘Jews’, ‘Blacks’, ‘Catholics’, or ‘Muslims’, and try again.Human much at all?What is a ‘non professional’ anyhow? Is it those without 3rd level professional degrees that serve you in shops, clean tables, or provide necessary if unglamorous services?It would be good to see you live in a world without ‘non-professionals’.
Its their fault that these people didn’t get a 3rd level qualification degree and be a “professional”.They made a choice when they decided not to go to university, or ignored the warnings in the last 20 years of the need to upskill.It is not society’s fault that they decided to keep working in the service industry or not work at all instead of going to uni because they wanted the quick easy way out of life and make money or participate in crime.Thats their decision – they’re an adult and should know the consequences of such actions. Other people chose to delay gratification and work their asses off doing part time in the service industry supporting themselves while completing their 3rd level college degree.Its a different world now.
I say evict and replace flat tenants with people with no criminal history who actually have jobs or only lost their job within one year, and set 10 year limit of stay for such council houses.They should do something similar with the dole as well.
Oh look at me I’m great And maybe a little bit bitter
“It’s not society’s fault they decided to keep working in the service industry”(??) You bourgeois asshat! Remember that idiotic statement when you next order your morning frappacino or expect the shelves to be stocked in M&S on your way home.
Pretentious drivel.
Too many criminal down and outs and criminal families living in this area. Move them out first.
@Mika Ffrench: No one wants criminals, drug pushers, junkies living beside them.   Where would we move them to.   The only suggestion I have is that there are a number of small islands un-inhabited all around the coast of Ireland.  Can we send them there with the tools to learn to survive just like as if they were in boot camp.   Anyone any other suggestions as to where we send them
I agree bings. But unfortunately I’d say there’s no chance of it happening. Moving the trouble makers out is the only option I think. Where to is the issue.
Such shite. Rebranding does not change problematic behavior which soiled the name of the area in the first place. The African-American and Traveller communities have undergone several rebrands over time and the new name eventuality becomes soiled by the unchanged old behavior requiring another name change ad nauseam. Also, you can’t have a Central Quarter when you already have NSEW.
How about sorting out the criminal element in the area, so that people don’t consider the area to be a no go area and avoid or live in fear. Causing a downward spiral. The area has facilities that many areas would love but they are not appreciate. Re-branding is only a means of changing the sociology-economic demographic, so that developers can make money in a cheap area and it is not about people.
Such negativity on practically all comments bar one.This country hasn’t a hope with brainless attitudes like that .
Thats because it is a pointless window dressing exercise, This country hasn’t a hope with brainless corrupt ideas like that.
Same brand with a different label, a typical FG stunt to capture media attention……
A much simpler solution would be to put Garda watch-posts in all the areas they want to ‘rebrand”. The businesses and homebuyers are already rebranding it, they don’t need to be taxed additionally. I think for the city council to decide we’re going to rebrand this area, that never works, places get rebranded when restaurateurs, home buyers, artists, etc. see an opportunity to get a more affordable deal in a safe-enough area
Junkietown
Lets be honest as this “regeneration” is near an area where this quisling government expects foreign companies to locate to adjacent IFSC after brexit. People in theses communities like in the past areas in the city centre were sent out to outlining estates in Finglas,Tallaght  with no public amenities  and left fend for themselves. Old neighbourhoods were gentified and the  communities were destroyed. This regeneration wont benefit the people currently living in this area or the city as a whole. Excuse of the government to continue the migration policies of the EU.
Give money to Limerick we have noting down here
I love the black and white brigade on here, saying you should throw the families out and the people are dirt. I know these people who have lived there for generations are an inconvenience to you when you are on your lunch or on your way to/from work but these families make up a community. You say to throw them out, tell me how do you identify who can be thrown out? Do you want to live in a country where the government can just decide that your home doesn’t fit in with their rebranding? If there are crimes to be prosecuted let the guards do some work and investigate. Maybe build a relationship with the people of the area so they feel comfortable coming to them if they know something. The fact  is the politicians and the police gave up on that area of the city a long time ago and now they want to throw a few million and a rebranding at them and think it will solve the problem. Like anything it takes time, it takes real commitment and it takes people who really care to get something done. This is a cheap stunt designed to give the illusion of keeping a promise that was made in a desperate attempt to vote grab before the election.
Bollox
Gentrification, folks.
“He has done a tremendous amount for us in Fine Gael” says it all about what is wrong with Irish politics. It should be about the country and its people not about any party…….
I was just about to say the same thing! I think that comment speaks volumes.
@Kerry Blake:  That’s probably the first honest thing Regina Doherty has ever said.
Et tu reg then fall mighty Enda….you have to hand it to Leo not an ounce of civic duty, we need a strong t shock going into #brexit negotiations but that does not deter the Leo’s agenda.A very scary prospect Leo as leader of our small nation, so much for Catholic Ireland
@brian boru: as soon as he goes so do the rest, so no hurry then, they will hang around spouting any dribble to disguise this fact
@Kerry Blake: Ms Doherty could have repharsed of what she actually said: “He has done a tremendous amount for us in Fine Gael” to this:”He has done a tremendous amount of damage to us in Fine Gael”.
Hmm he’s done even more for Fianna Fail! He’s managed to make them look good.
Fifty lashes across the mickey with a wet shoelace is what the man deserves for crimes against the Irish people.
Maybe she the one who taught Mr Trump that correct facts don’t matter ? !
@John Flanagan:He has done a tremendous amount for FG whilst lying a tremendous amount to the electorate.If he has done so well by FG why are they staring into the abyss, why are FF dictating policy, why has he lost Varadkar’s confidence (check the latest report in the independent.ie website).He has done a tremendous amount of damage to Irish society by his blinkered approach. He looked after big finance and left the people behind.FG need to lift the Mayo Curse.
Right so the other night in the dail when fg were ranting and raving about others playing political football with Maurice MC cabe . What they really meant is behind the scenes it’s really us eh Leo who is playing political football.  Amazingly while they were busy praising enda and giving them themselves pats on the back how fantastic they were this is what they will really thinking.‘Distracting and destabilising’: Leo Varadkar says ‘everyone is waiting’ on a decision from Enda.Unbelievable…
@Paul Mc: Enda Kenny is the mickey!
Kerry, Enda Kenny has done a tremendous amount for FG. He built the party from grassroots and relaunched it from near extinction and then won a huge majority with their traditional Ally Labour and Regina is obviously addressing the faithful. We are all enjoying the fruits of his success if it be by design or luck or both.
@winston smith: What success?
Kerry…Too much to outline but just compare Ireland’s economy and international standing under Cowen and Kenny’s leadership and that should point you in the general direction.
He’s a dead duck, he expects to hang around until April so he is the longest serving FG  taoiseach or other nonsense, he is supposed to serve the people of ireland, not his own ego. Enda your time is up, move along
fan…the people will decide that…hope that’s ok
@Alanine Pipeline: Actually, the people sharpening the knives ahead of next wednesdays party meeting will.
FC, unlike your beloved Sinn Fein the next leader of FG will be elected in a democratic manner by the members of the party
@shits ville: Really? Because the membership didn’t vote your current leader in
Up the shits there, face meet palm.
Will be good for SF/PIRA to learn how to democratically elect a leader, not cherry pick some puppet in West Belfast.Paper and pencil ready shinnerbots…
Bye bye Enda. Was not nice knowing you.
@diarmuid If there was an article about the plight of turtles on the barrier reef you’d somehow twist it around so you could rant about Sinn Fein. “Uuuuuugh but the shinnerbots are responsible for plastic bags in the oceans because of reasons…” Give it a rest please.
@Ruairi O Neill: In fairness Ruairi he is quite funny after all you just know he’s going to wade in with an inane comment regardless about what is being discussed!!!
I’m in Awe of The timing of this supposed heave against our dear leader.He’s nearly as cunning as the Bert.Still, very little being talked of Maurice McCabe now.How convenient.
Are you kidding. .. both men made a mint thanks to their friendship with ‘He who will not be named’
Was he not corrupt when he had ‘A WORD ‘ with the Garda commissioner who suddenly for no reason retired?Is it not corrupt to want to sell off (privatise) every last state owned asset the country owns. He only supports his friends in BIG business. A great little country to strip to the bone. Maggie would be so proud of him.
Respect is for those who deserve it, not for those who demand it…….
Respect is earned, and outside of the cosy cabal who have had their nests feathered these last 6 years, who respects a ‘leader’ who has allowed the number of children in persistent poverty to double on his watch?
@For Connolly: we can only hope that FG go for an underachieving loudmouth like Varadker. That should hasten thier demise
A great bunch of lads…great republicans. Who dare to speak in our names!!!!
@ Diarmuid… You really can’t help yourself can you !!!. Tell us , do you hale from a long line of idiots or were you designed for one village in particular ?. Just asking out of curiosity.
@ Diarmuid = gobsh ite
How many times more are you going to tell us about your little boat on the Shannon….lololol?
Ah bless, the other village idiot is trying to get a rise. Don’t worry gobsh ite, when you see your fake Facebook account closed due to trolling and your ip blocked we will have the last laugh. Would you like to see Your IP address posted ?
Aw, ease up there Mike. I’ve always respected your opinions. No need for the name-calling.
He had no respect for the people of Ireland. And as for you Regina you’ve some neck to talk about respect.
Reggie changes like the wind, a flip flopper who’ll say or do anything that’s to her own advantage.Enda didn’t show much respect in the last week nor since he took the reins and hammered the most vulnerable people in Irish society.They can do whatever they like with their leader because FF have made complete fools of them and the electorate can’t wait to see the back of them.They’re irritating now.
I have as much respect for kenny as he has for me…SFA !!.
Did you respect Haughey, Ahern, Cowen etc? As their FF clones are on the way back – to virtually bankrupt our country again!
I’d have respect for the people evicted and living in their cars also. Would he?
@Alanine Pipeline:  With the help of Fine Gael, why won’t you acknowledge this fact Alanine. You’re obviously a blueshirt because you seem to want to ignore certain disturbable facts. Don’t be too disheartened though, Fianna Fail supporters do exactly the same thing.
@Alanine Pipeline: “You repulsive/ubiquitous buffoon – I have never voted FG.”We can tell. But when you’re old enough to vote, will you be voting FG?
@Alanine Pipeline: “You repulsive/ubiquitous buffoon – I have never voted FG. You?”Why not? you keep claiming Enda has done such a good job. So why sing his praises but not vote his party? Unless as For Connolly just pointed you, you’re not old enough to vote yet.
Alanine your the buffoon actually
@Alanine Pipeline: “Maybe jammin – but never SF/IRA…, like most…”Bit of a stupid comment, seeing as though ‘like most’ applies to every single political party in the state.
@Les Behan: Because Alaine/Will/Bill/Glenn/Mahmoud is living in the UK …
Tralee actually…
but can only type for Alanine…an Irish citizen who is not proud of the politicians we elect…
When he goes, Regina will be demoted. Bye bye.
@Alanine Pipeline: Cheers for setting such a high bar on your standards for leader of the state.
F Off
All politicians end in failure
@Rory: Just to play devils advocate, Bill Clinton left office with high approval ratings, low poverty rates, low unemployment rates, with the economy running a $230,000,000,000 surplus.
He never showed respect for the Irish people
@Sandra Clifford: Sure the the whole country went mad……..
Here we go again..More Regina Monologues….Spare us…please just pass the sick bag…
He gets the same amount of respect he has shown the people of this country – none.
@Alanine Pipeline: Adams was acquitted of IRA membership due to lack of evidence. Do you have some new evidence that neither the Gardai nor PSNI are aware of that warrants accusing a sitting TD of a criminal offense?Go on , giz a chuckle….
Why should we respect Enda. He doesn’t give a fcuk about ordinary Citizens
Fu*k off Doherty u abomination. U have ruined many lives with ur failed businesses. U are a disgrace just like Kenny.
@Alanine Pipeline: Who’s ‘Gorry’? Your spell checker acting up??
Says a lot when his own ministers and TDs within his party are showing him so little respect .. that says a lot.. both by him and them..
@LITTLEONE: It’s telling that Fianna Fail are showing more respect to Enda than his own party.  The heretofore anonymous backbenchers have found a voice and are barking like little yappy terriers while the pretenders to the throne stay silent… I wonder will the backbenchers be rewarded after the change in leadership?
Fianna Fail are not showing respect, it suits them to have Enda as leader and watch him make a total idiot of himself on TV and radio which in turn makes them look positive. The minute Enda gets the heave and is replaced by someone capable of giving a coherent speech or interview they’re going to pull the plug!
@Alanine Pipeline: “The dogs on the streets know it”Jesus, CASE CLOSED! LOL!!
Sichophantic comments, an embarrassment to meath voters, she’s was quoted on Vincent  Brown last year “I believe everything our Taoiseach says” , either easily fooled, easily lead or complicit  in his lies
From the minute he’s f*cks offs as you so elegantly put it he costing the tax payers a small fortune in the form of a pension. Every extra day he’s in the job is one less day we have to pay him for doing nothing.
Now now Michael, Alanine obviously speaks fluent dog and the word on the street is that I’m barking up the wrong tree….
Jases Dane, you really are as thick as a bag of sledgehammers. As you have been told under all your various accounts & personalities… Get professional help while you can….
As a human being he is a piece of shit, as himself he’s just a clown…Human being it is then.
Probably the worst leader this country has ever had. Granted, the country was a mess when he took over but him and his cronies have managed to create a huge homeless crisis, bring the health system to its knees, countless lies and stumble from one clusterphuck to another and that clown wants people to respect him. Is she having a laugh?
Witch …
I think I’m gonna be sick after reading that headline.
respect was earned slowly and lost quickly
@ For Connelly. He/She/it most certainly is full of something alright… An utter gombeen.
More lies wood say.
I have more respect for what I flush down the toilet, than I do fro both enda and Regina combined.
We have hit rock bottom if all he deserves is respect as a human being.
Worse than Haughey, Ahern, Cowen etc?
All the best Reggie.
Jesus Christ that varadkar weasel is so transparent… What he really means is I’m waiting to jump in. he is pathetic I think other members of the party have his number anyway
A bit rich, coming from a tough talking cookie with unpaid taxes like Doherty. When Alls set and done, Enda’s & Fine Gael are as self serving pocket lining as Fianna Fáil ! Just look at Zappone’s  cheating her travel expenses by falsifying  her distance from the Dail. Spose that’s wow she pays for her private this to the USA etc.
@Alanine Pipeline: Dogs, whether in the street or in the home or on the farm, can’t talk to the gardai or PSNI so whatever they might  know counts for naught!
He’s not human.  He’s a politician.
Et tu Varadkar.?……..the unkindest cut of all.
kenny wouldn’t know the meaning of the word  respect.he has no respect for the sick,oaps,homeless.etc.the list is endless all he is is a self serving 2 faced pension collector
Lippy Leo has already got the knife and waiting for some other idiot to stir the pot , pity they do not all go and let someone that speaks the truth run the ship.
Hopefully someone else will emerge to challenge for the leadership in next few days. It seems that some of them are intent on shifting Inda anyway. I’d love to see a dark horse coming at the last moment and wiping out  that Gobsihte Varadka . Anyway, I think that he would be destined to make a balls of it anyway.
@mickmc: you’re right he would do us a favour if he would just drop dead.
Well that’s Varadker gone!
Hopefully Kenny will take Regina with him when he goes
Let FG do what they want but the vacuous non achiever as leader would speak volumes for their political intent power at all costs. Leo 2 times a minister and still nothing achieved except being good to his lovers in the poor Quality in The Irish media
It literally scares the sh*t out of me. The idea that this guy could be our next Fuhrer .  No social conscience , no empathy and a massive ego. He has learned from the master how to earn a good living whilst making no discernible contribution to the portfolio he is charged with, whilst pontificating on every other subject under the Sun. It is terrifying to think of what this man could do to the less fortunate in our society if he is given any semblance of real power
The dogs on the streets know it – but not you! It’ll come out very soon – there were a lot of SF visitors to Boston not long ago! Did the truth hurt? Bye, back to FA Cup…
Kick his arse out now! Stop fannying around!
Varadkar’s naked ambition for power is disturbing (man eat dog). What has he achieved during his time in his various ministerial positions? He is no more of a leader than the one on his way out.  Varadkar is a smooth talker but of little substance.
Not as low as yours…Gorry!!!!
SF/IRA leader…for decades. At least FF are right about that!
He is a half wit, look at the way he conducted himself last week in the Dail , the only people that have been lucky since this clown got into the Dail  is the kids who did not have to listen to him as a teacher.
Enda Kenny to give him his due was hard working and puts in a staggering amount of hours. But leadership qualities and charisma are sadly lacking. A man of little vision really other than ‘Europe is our saviour- we must hang on for dear life’.
Leo has backing, they’re just too sneaky to speak out.doing what is best for the country me arse.
Vradaker is a useless frivolous lightweight more suited to having morning coffee with the ladies than making a bigger mess of the largest mess this state has been subjected to by the neoliberalists.
Gorry was never in the PIRA.Unlike Martin Ferris, Gerry Kelly, Martin McGuinness….Poor guy must have missed the boat.
A failed useless Ex minister for hospital trollies talking about a man that imagines reality every day.God help us.
All eurofile bilderbergers hoping to continue  Merkel Misery migrant and austerity  crusade. Irish poodles with even less power than Sakozy or Hollande.
Just about have had enough of queers attempting to make policy for straights…when is the straight mans party going to appear? Or will we all be balaragged by these Nancy boys and their  facism dressed up as manners politico correctness..Disgusting and and an insult to Irish manhood.
@Mike Holmes:ITS MY BELIEVE THAT SIMON COVENEY WILL BECOME FINE GAELS 11 TH LEADER& NEXT TAISESCH.
The reluctance to wield the axe (metaphorically) reflects one of our cultural traits I most resent – the culture of deference we also saw during the days of Holy Catholic Ireland when criticism of the RCC was shut down. If you’re going to run then run, Leo.
Homeless crisis Housing crisis hospital crisis waiting for operations disgrace and now McCabe and Tulsa. don’t forget water charges and turning our water down to a trickle. these are fascists and bullies. looking after the Elites while a third of the country is in poverty. Feck Fianna Gael blue shirts to hell and let the devil have them.
Gorry? Probably…sadly he’ll go on as long as he can. Like Martin who was a senior IRA bloke. Odd that your best m8 was unaware of that…
I don’t think anyone’s gonna say Kenny was a great man after he leaves anyway. In fact, the tone now is more like don’t laugh at the clown eejit on his way out!
No dice Vradaker,St Patrick not St Patricia!
Can he not pass the power to his brother or son like Cuba and north Korea? We need a socialist government here. stop all this democratic nonsensical
In politics, it is rarely the one who wields the knife that gets the crown.
We might getting nearer  to the reason behind all the horse this week…. The ambitious politicians taking advantage of a media promoted storm. Who cares about the truth ….
Go Enda Go
Et tu Leo, slippery as an eel covered in baby oil
Even the moon and stars… Crazy is what crazy does?
A man of Vradraker? (Wherever that came from) character should be running Fine Gael. After all thee party s name means “Irish are we” and Vradaker we gave our doubts!
WHY IS IT WHEN FINE GAEL TRY TO SORT OUT THE ECONOMY THEY HAVE NEVER GOT CREDIT FOR IT.ENDA KENNY HAS SERVED POLITICS WELL A MAN OF GREAT INTEGRITY. HE TOOK OVER HIS PARTY AND OUR COUNTRY WHEN THEY WERE AT ITS LOWEST EBB, AND HE IS LEAVING THE SCENE WITH A BETTER IRELAND THAN 2011 AND WE SHOULD NOT FORGET THAT AT THIS MOMENT.
@Andy O’ Connor, he got elected in 2011 because it was all about getting FF out. Mickey Mouse would have been elected that time had he stood against a FF candidate ! Kenny then implemented the Troika’s plan as agreed by FF ! I could have done that. He is now Taoiseach again only because FF allow him to be . You say he is a decent and honourable man, I say he should resign immediately after standing up last week in Dáil Éireann and lying to the people of Ireland. He should be ashamed of himself.
The current situation is distracting & destabilising for nobody bar those in fg who are intent on ascending the ladder. Pretty despicable lot to attempt to put their own self interest before the horrendous hospital waiting lists, the housing crisis, the victimisation of the whistleblowers & brexit.
Grow some balls so Leo, call him out.
The sight of that filthbag Hogan makes me physically sick. A horrendous individual
Shocked that this one wasn’t included.Best of the lot in my opinion.https://pbs.twimg.com/media/BmY1K1HIQAEZtIG.jpg:large
@aaron excellent!
Best and most suitable one is for Phil Hogan.
Phil the gangster
Ah, the empty “thought bubble” above Paschal. That made me smile. Succinct.
@Cranium: with the emphasis on ‘empty’.
@Cranium: He has a steam engine for a brain???
Where’s the one where Labour Leader Joan Burton smiles broadly while she proudly cuts the ribbon for the latest food bank to feed the hungry multitudes failed by her Govt policies?
And bertie did just that
Not very entertaining really. Just wasted 3 minutes of my life
Ah olive id doubt you’ll miss them
LOL think you might be right
I wouldn’t say “unfortunate”. I think those signs suits the type of fools they are
And all highly appropriate too, unfortunately!
The photo of Bertie Aherne at, I think, the national basketball arena with the hoop forming a slightly askew halo is a classic of the genre.
Edna’s photo, Hulk Hogan’s and talk is cheap are funny. The rest are fluff. A bit of editing wouldn’t go astray…?
Slow reader
I enjoyed them. Alan kelly countdown taxi my favourite. On a side note – if all the miserable gits commenting negatively on various stories hate them so much, just delete the app.
@Etherman: sorry for having an opinion, should just ignore it if it bothers you
Toxic fatbergs
Fat head Phil Hogan.Government health warning would be more appropriate
Imagine a movie where the antagonist is a smiling and gregarious caretaker by day, all of his colleagues in the labarotory find him warrm and always ready to help. By night though, he transforms into a cold blooded serial killer. His lair is a disused lab and coldroom where his victims are kept before being subjected to unspeakable torture for hours before the welcome release of death. Now look at the picture of Phil Hogan.
This is a waste of good internet.
Where’s the “Disband all current parties and start again from scratch” option?
They tried to set up new parties before and we ended up with Renua and The Social Democrats.I think what we need now is a totalitarian dictator who will lead by fear and terror.
can we call him/her “The Leader”??
Unlikely Tweety, can’t imagine Varadkar in a beret, combats and dark sunglasses. Regina Doherty perhaps?
Tweety you’re turning into Wally.
I’m glad the options read as FG leader, and not the Country, no contest….
Should be a fkcu yeah option.
The leader is good, the leader is great. We surrender our will as of this date.
I’ll nominate Alex Ferguson. Couldn’t do any worse than the incompetents we’ve had for the last 40 years.
That is the direct translation of taoiseach though!!
Just wondering why Morris Macabe situation has been over shadowed by Fine Gael’s in house debacles…just wondering??
The Vozhd!.
Just watching the Late Late and that poor Girl from Limerick Irs amazing that her Mother got a call before the late late that a date for the operation Shame on you Kenny Harris And the rest You all go now please
Merkel awarded him the freedom of Berlin for his troubles as the door hits him on the way out.
Pure politics, they envisioned a big applause and a happy ending. It’s great for the girl, her case was especially difficult viewing on prime time, as well as the young lad crying on the floor. The catch up on these lists will be like watching an F1 driver catching up by fractions every lap. Need to throw public money at clearing the lists (prioritizing pain and children) in foreign countries, if that’s possible, I don’t know. Or pay contractors abroad to come here and offer them crazy money per case cleared.
I was watching that Pat and it’s heartbreaking. I absolutely guarantee you that this will never happen to one of theirs.
Michael Her Mother did not mention the date l really hope it is next week
If you are a member of finegael and the leader of Fianna fail does everything he can to keep you in place it is time to leave.
Enda step down as “Taoisech” his ego is too big for that..what advice would the man with two pints in one hand give Enda now..
Taoiseach!!!
@sparky: Have 2 more pints in the other hand and use a straw?
That fella couldn’t lead a trail of piss from the bowl to the mat…
You’d know Mickey…
Absolutely, no ifs or buts about it, don’t let the door hit you on the way and while your at it take the rest of your crooked cronies with you……
Kate – isn’t that what we said about FF?
@Alanine Pipeline, all we got was more of the same, one thing’s for sure our politicians are consistent if nothing else…..
Yes Kate – but we continue to vote for the Collins and Dev parties. In my small town – there’s still a divide. I’m called a blueshirt – even though I don’t even vote…
You definitely are a blueshirt.
Who else would you vote for alanine? Unless you’re lucky enough to have a SD or a decent independent running in your constituency, its slim pickings.
I’m with Jane, Sinn Fein all the way
@ Alanine , if you don’t bother your arse to vote then you have **** all right to come on here procrastinating and preaching to those that do vote. Even if they vote ff/fg/lab/ sf etc , they do vote and earn the right to have their say.
@Alanine Pipeline, people put their faith in these politicians, be it Fianna Fáil or Fine Gael, that’s the beauty of democracy, the right to choose, the right to vote, one can hardly blame the electorate for the way these people conduct themselves while in office!
@Kate Flaherty:  “one can hardly blame the electorate for the way these people conduct themselves while in office!”Of course you can, 16 years it took to get rid of them. Let’s not forget that Fianna Fail were corrupt long before Bertie became their leader. The electorate were so desperate to get rid of Fianna Fail they decided to ignore the fact that Fine Gael were exactly the same elect Mr Bean.
Jane will you be on the SD card!!
Where’s the “duhhhhhhh” option ?
Who cares whether Enda steps down or out. Fine Gael are losing support year on year because there in no genuine talent and vision within the party so it’s game over for the blueshirts, they will end up being a pointless, irrelevant party like Labour within the next 15 years.
@Super Ted:  You’re such a little tease :-)
@Super Ted: We need a Father Lankester Merrin to prise those two apart, the power of Brexit compels you, the power of Merkel compels you and the power of the McCabe fall out will compel you. Also the power of the backbenchers will compel you further lol.At least Hogan at worst will embrace him as he enters the white light of an E.U. cosy job in his next life?
Every group picks its best to be leader, that is the best finegael have the whole party should step down
He’s lost the confidence of his party, so it’s just a matter of time, maybe the 18th March after his trip to the US
@Martin fagan: His ministers and him will be away for more that a week at best as it is the annual St. Paddy’s tax payers paid holiday that they all take?
Hell yes…!!!!!!!!!!
This man put the country back on an even keel after Haughey, Ahern and Cowen bankrupted us – in all but name. FF again – with SF/IRA?
@Alanine Pipeline:  Stop smoking crack!
Hahahahahahahahaha
@Alaine Pipeline: He is too weak and lied about the what he knows about what he knows about what he knows about what happened to Maurice McCabe and the Gardai/Tusla involvement in what has to be a criminal case. FG need better than this.
And XVI…FF virtually bankrupted us – which is worse?
@Alanine Pipeline:  Right but you do know that Fine Gael are in a coalition government with Fianna Fail in everything but name? So what does that tell you?
@Alanine Pipeline: This is all the proof you could need of what is wrong with this government, they have cut health spending particularly on mental health services (because it is less visible). Hope you get better soon Al and quit self medicating.
But Joe…FF were saints!? The fact is the electorate still vote in Civil war parties…always. We’ll be giving Gorry a job next!
Then we moan about Brexit – a decision by another sovereign country. Blame the EU for everything – even though we begged to join! Not our fault though – that we can’t pick our politicians…
The guy has no talent.How the hell did he survive in politics for so long?
Bill…he may be a mediocrity. But not a crook….And that makes a change…
@Alaine Pipeline: Good point..
@Alanine Pipeline: can I remind you ff burnt the house down while fg lead by enda poured petrol in the rooms, remember as fg and ff promised all things to everyone only ff got it and lit the blowtorch!how any sane person can consider either a party of the people is beyond meoh and enda going to Brussels and saying paddy partied was a pretty low ebb even by ff/fg standards
@Alanine Pipeline: are we speaking about the same enda? now he is not a crook? good god, I want double whatever your on.
@Alanine Pipeline: The German government did about 6 to 8 of our budgets, we don’t decide on the value of the Euro as the ECB does that and the Q.E. known as printing money was done by Dragi and the ECB. It was the Troika under the IMF that told Kenny to bring in new taxes like property tax, water charges, USC etc and we don’t decide who to trade with or who trades with us as that seems to be down to the Troika in order to control austerity and the Euros value on the international stage.Closes thing to say is we were like the Vichy government that was in France under German rule?Remember it was Merkel who turned bank debt into tax payers debt  using austerity because they hadn’t a clue what to do, like this and last government?
No way the ringleader in a circus should be a clown.
He is !!!.
@joe o hare: But Merkel is the Ringleader?
Why are you asking this stupid question as everyone knows he will only go when he gets a big enough brown envelope while on a junket paid for by the tax payer
Time to go! But lets send him as a trojan horse first to wreck the head of donald trump like hes been wrecking our heads for yrs.
Leave him there.he does more damage to the than any opposition party is doing.
Him, Brian Cody, and Wenger.
What does it matter? It’ll still be an arrogant, self-serving wnker in charge of a party of arrogant, self-serving wnkers..
The arrogance he and supporters within that backwards party have shown in recent days is utterly disturbing but not surprising. He is running a state ,totally incompetent and now a liar and vociferous in his defense of what’s gone on.both ff fg are an utter cancer on Ireland ,now that we know ff think we still deserve a gov who has had this scandal and so many disasters. Drain the swamp!
Yes, social and regular media need new victims to crucify…we have to keep the circus going.
It’s about running the country, the role of taoiseach is about running the country. Whoever is in that position is required to have skin thick enough to deal with media trolls social or otherwise as a prerequisite
Im not a fan of Kenny but now is not the right time for a new Taoiseach or Election
Should step down on 15th Match and give the poisoned chalice of going to see the Donald to Leo….
And Donald will ask Leo” And what was your opinion of me before I rigged the election with the help of the Russians and now I’m the president.?”
Enda is clinging on to be FGs longest serving taoiseach… And that says it all… I’m looking for work at the minute and interviewers are giving me hell over staying 10years in my last job.
@Eamon: Why as no man is an island and no Taoiseach is a true leader… Even the EU wipes our butts for us?
No matter what political question they ask the majority will always say no because people don’t like politicians.
@Jlocoroco: People prefer honesty.
He will hang on till this blows over in the nice weather. Calls it for early next year.Coveney’s housing strategy will have looked to have worked due to a lot of the builds finished or close to. Most likely to get the nod from Kenny and Noonan.Leo, the media darling, will dip his toe in everything and run out social protection like it ain’t no thang. I predict heavy lycra and a bike for the summer.Kelly grows a conscience in the hope of Tainste. Martin invests in well placed distract offices and turns the monthly forums up to 2.SD’s look for palatable but inexperienced candidates. AAA keep seats. PBP lose momentum. IA…giggle. Renua…giggle.Speaking of Spring/Summer. Anyone notice the daffodils and cherry trees today? Lovely.
As someone who moved to Ireland so no political affiliation, Ireland has one of the best economies in Europe and has an excellent growth rate, unemployment is reducing dramatically, each day new jobs are being announced, firms are looking to relocate here.  On the downside  the HSE is in crisis but so is the NHS, however Fianna Fáil never put enough money into it when the Celtic tiger was booming, homelessness is a major problem however, there has not been a major house building programme for the past 10 years, that is because the banks were not lending. Enda like him or loathe him, ( and his government)  has pulled this country from its knees to being a great example to other countries. If he was PM of Greece or Italy or any of the other struggling EU countries would they be baying for his resignation? Be careful what you wish for, you may end up those awful politicians who were more interested in lining their own pockets than what is best for the country. It’s a shame he didn’t receive support it may have made Ireland even greater.
Ummmmmmmmm can I have some of your tablets please
The employment rate may be rising, but when put in conjunction with other figures such as 33% struggling to pay monthly basic of rent/ mortgage and 2nd place in OECD rankings of low paid employment.Those figures put FG and FF policy in a very different light.
@ummmmm are you another of endys fantasy visions?
Why bother? We are in a minority government people!!! Its the best for all ideologies!!
Rumor has it that he’s going to manage the Mayo football team and win them that elusive all-Ireland, as well as driving the fire engine in Castlebar, Beverly Cooper Flynn drives the school buses so no conflict of interest there.
No he should not, for the simple reason that if he does step down, then some other useless sack of sh!te Fine Gael politician will be able to claim a Taoiseach’s salary & pension. Let him run his course, & his party right into the ground, where it belongs :)
Refuse to vote.. Next up will not improve FG…Self service = FG..
Makes no difference. We’ll just end up with a different Asal in charge of the country. Same same but different!
Enda Kenny and Arsene Wenger have an elaborate game of chicken going on
This fool should never have been in the position in the first place. He only there because FF put him there. He got the biggest majority in the history of this state but he was too stupid to keep it. The sooner this idiot and his party shuffles off the stage  the better for everybody.
Without a pension as well! How come ALL these people come and fcuk things up and walk away with a big pension let them live off the state pension and see how they manage
If Leo get in it will be backs to the wall
Why is that paddy?
Great that we get a replacement choice betweem a failed health minister & a failed housing minister
I feel he should step down as leader, BUT, as one the most experienced Irish person in European affairs, he should be appointed as the Irish spokesman there, on the Brexit issues, within EU. I think none of his replacements have what  it takes to deal with this complex situation. P.S. I am not a F.G. supporter.
Well he us good at getting his hair tousled!
@Matthew Roche: AAAHHHHH!!! do you remember the deal he got from his friends in the EU? stuffed this country for generations, what a guy eh? knows how to drive a bargain does our enda, lost completely lost
PS im not a fine gael or fianna fail supporter either!
Well because they insisted they had such confidence in him they should be forced to carry that ” Political Corpse” as a certain politician suggested into the next election! Personally I think Noonan and End as strategy will be to see out the next budget and then in mid Jan 2018 swop leader for Leo. Leo has the Bertie factor, an amiable aul soul who can smile and talk sweetly while the gloved hand plunders you! I think with an election date called soon after before Leo drops any clangers they will be banking on getting back into the Dail with the help of the usual suspects! Personally I think Michael Martin will rue the day he abstained on pulling the plug, if a resurgent bounce carries FG back into the Dail on the narrowest margins, marry in haste regret at leisure as they say!
he should have gone years ago he got the seat because his father died, i never forget when he told a man who was telling him his children all got out of this country he told the man to go back home and have a shave and he could do with a bit of exercise!! if it was me i would have punched the gobshit! merkels lap dog, but unfortunately there are no groups i would vote far, the morale of the whole country is gone down!!
I understand his Memory Lapse/ Confusion! So much for delaying Retirement! Imagine if it happened in an Emergency, it could cost Lives!
Off with his head!!
He’s done a decent job but it’s time for change. Would love to see Leo at the helm, I’d say he’d be good. Doesn’t seem to be a bull sh**ter.
@Ivor O’Sullivan: where do you live and have you got money?
I take it all the Fianna Fáilers will be on shortly to vote no!!! Heh! Heh! Heh!
Who cares?  But its  better he stays on an continues his corruption.  Irish people deseve it
Sure the Ponce shouldn’t be there after the last election . The people’s vote didn’t count it’s a laugh he was still there as big a Laugh as Trump in the Whitehouse .
Time for new blood at the top.
Merkel needs a new lapdog as Hollande and Sarkozy are gone. Enda angles for a new EU job.
@joe o hare:Yes
No he should not step down,has been doing a great job so far considering  the mess that he had to take over from very hard to pick up the pieces from that  far to many mistakes were made, my wife and I and our 8 year old and 5 year old met him at the ploughing in screggen tullamore recently,he had such a caring manner towards the kids even picking them up for photos and had so much time for them, keep going king Kenny ride out the storm,,,,,,, don’t step down
@Patricia Butler: What? You do realise that he LIED when he was asked about having a conversation with Katherine Zappone about the file on Maurice McCabe right? He didn’t even come out and say that he DIDN’T have a conversation with Zappone about Maurice McCabe.
The 3rd option should be I couldn’t give a toss.
Who remembers when many in Fine Gael wanted Enda gone? Then they got into government and they all sang Enda’s praises. Who can trust any of these people when they can’t even trusted among themselves.
@Les Behan:Does Farrell have confidence in Noirin O’Sullivan and Francis Fitzgerald?He voted confidence two days ago.  The stink he has received from his constituents since Wednesday has brought on a state of self preservation.The only mark on my ballot paper will be in support of Maurice McCabe and his lovely family and all the other whistleblowers who were brutally treated by the State run agencies
@Christy Nolan:I have no confidence in FG/FF/LAB. But who give’s a f…
@Kerry Gallagher: Buy a plane ticket.
Nobody has any confidence in Enda Kenny.
On the bright side. … think of all the children in Mayo who, because Enda went into politics, didn’t have to suffer this incompetent buffoon as their teacher for years. Every silver lining has a cloud.
@Owen Lynch….he has every right to have his opinion regarding certain parties.. and why do you suggest he leaves the country?..  this is not North Korea  … you sir are a tw@t
@Les Behan: Indeed, then it was Richard Bruton and Vincent Brown with the knives out for Enda….
@Chris Kirk:  Don’t forget about Leo, sure he was one of the main instigators back then. He is has 2 faced as the come, not to be trust!
@Owen Lynch: It’s the likes of you that should buying them.
Alan Farrell is a fool -he is jumping the gun looking for publicity for himself-another example of a self serving policitian .
@Bennythekid:Yes a very strange decision by Farrell, He is by no means up to the job and jumping ship so quickly could be the end of his career. If Enda survives then Farrell is finished. I am not a FG supporter and nor do I like Kenny but in a dog fight between Kenny & Farrell I would have my money on Kenny.
@Bennythekid: “he is jumping the gun looking for publicity for himself”Or a seat at the cabinet table.
He’s just being the patsy to allow Kenny make a structured resignation after Patrick’s day. Kenny will announce he is stepping down tonight, but will stay on until April for “stability” and to ensure the FG election runs until may, so we don’t get above our station in looking for a mayday election. It’s all for show.
@For Connolly:I have often disagreed with u on this forum, which is perfectly healthy and its good to have differing opinions. However, I think we are in agreement here with Mr Farrell, I just think he has delusions of grandeur.
@ nick Allen and For Connelly-in full agreement -And I’m not a Fine Gael supporter -I think Enda Kenny will go but he should be left get on with the difficult Brexit talks first and I’m surprised at members of his own party jumping on the bandwagon for their own personal advancment.
@Bennythekid:It shows the mess of FG at the moment. And Farrell doing this could cost him and the party serious damage. Ha Ha Ha
@Nick Allen:Not really a mess. Kenny has said himself he will be stepping down in short order to give a new leader time to prepare for the next general election.All this drama may accomplish is slightly accelerating that timetable, not much else.
I have to say fg are showing themselves up at the moment as the party of comedians.. they are on the airwaves praising enda Kenny as the great leader that saved Ireland, saved us all.. the country is booming under him.  He has been fantastic and will go down in history as one of the greatest taoiseach this country has ever had . Then in another breath they want him gone, replaced .. why?  If his every thing they are claiming…
@Fred Jensen:And careful what you wish for because an FG party with a new young leader and free of Kenny may get a substantial boost in the polls and in any coming election.
@Fred Jensen:  Because they are young doesn’t mean people will overlook they were fully behind Kenny in this shameful episode.. do you think people have conviently forgot that Leo varadaker was health minister in charge of HSE as this shameful smear campaign was happening.. they don’t…
@Bennythekid:And if he outwardly gives support to Kenny we will say he is lying and up to the usual political games. Nearly every one I know and probably on this site knows Kenny’s position is untenable and he should go, so what is wrong with stating the obvious. It looks like dammed if you dammed if you don’t.
Just leave this here .. paragraph from above.. think this sums up fg at the moment..  only interested in saving their seats ,.  Don’t worry country is facing the worse scandal it’s ever faced.Over the last number of days, we as a party have stumbled from one crisis to another, highlighting how fragile our arrangement as a minority government is. Not only were we close to an election once, I firmly believe we came close three times. If anything should be learned from the events of the last few days it is that we must be ready for an election at any time.”
You should listen back to that idiot condor lenihan on liveline….and Joe giving him an easy ride…Joe got highly enflamed with 2 commentators who tried to say Kenny should go now ..his old labour party is still there even though he gets half a mill a year…Rte are still so biased it’s a joke
The one that yields the knife never wears the crown.
Who is Alan Farrell ?
An insufferable political hack
FG TD for Dublin North. There is no confidence in him and he won’t be re-elected. Has not been sighted since the last election.
Some back bencher trying to have his 15 mins..
Is this the same opportunist that his first act when elected a wet day ago was to employ his wife and then tried to get her to take his vacated seat on Fingal County Council ,all on the public purse.He will never reach the heights of Enda Kenny so he would be wise to cut the crap.
Enda may just give up. They had confidence enough to vote for him Wednesday, but now want him out. I just fear what will replace him. Varadkar is an egomaniac
Enda liked to come across as a leader, but he allowed anyone else; from the gardai hierarchy, michael noonan and the ecb, the teaching unions, the civil service mandarins, the HSE executive and anyone else who wanted to take responsibility take it from him. He tried to be a manager with the only responsibility being to the population of Castlebar. An accidental leader of FG who was the technocratic politician all the above needed, but the last thing the country did. Hopefully, varadkar takes over this as he seems more independent than the daddy’s seat, friend of the bilderbergers, coveney, and may grow some balls to take back control for the people who elected him.
@Gulliver Foyle: Wouldn’t hold out for Varadkar either. Lacks any substance beyond a soundbite and little in the way of life experience commercial or either his chosen field for that matter. A typical careerist, straight out of Uni as Kenny was when he took on daddy’s seat at 24. Are we destined to be Governed by these types?
Getting rid of Enda Kenny means nothing.Another power hungry soul will take his place and nothing changes.94 years of being governed by FF/FG has this country where it is
Jesus ! A politician actually saying what thinks !
Don’t cut yourself off that edge Alan
Leo and/or Simon promised him a promotion for saying it.
In fairness, a journalist probably told him to say it
Tick tock…
Party at the Dail gates when the sleeveen leaves,then welcome the incoming snake be it the Varadkar ego or the off shore account beneficiary Coveney.Protest is the only way to stop this corruption within Fine Gael.
The confidence vote was only 2 days ago. What way did he vote then?
Farrell disclosed two names on dail record that were given confidentially to the Garda commissioner as part of a murder investigation. He’s a convenient mouth for more senior politicians to hide behind. I wonder whether it was leo or simon holding the strings?
@For Connolly:He’s a fool and made a complete mess of what he was trying to achieve with the two names. Regardless of whether anyone agrees or disagrees with him he just played his cards so badly
You have to hand it to fg.. few days ago they expressed full confidence in themselves and enda Kenny.. accused others in the dail of playing political football and a  day later they are using this MC cabe shameful scandal as political football themselves using it as a catalyst to have a coup….
Coming soon to a dail near you.. fg part 2 . Next up noonan.Finance Minister Michael Noonan has been accused of attempting to “influence or muzzle” a Public Accounts Committee investigation into the Project Eagle controversy after demanding negative findings against him are removed.https://www.google.ie/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.irishexaminer.com/ireland/noonan-seeks-to-block-pac-criticisms-443167.html&ved=0ahUKEwiS1ISbsZfSAhXJAMAKHTXFCCoQFggZMAA&usg=AFQjCNEzZ-t71hW4g19_CzF0J5gilUI8vw&sig2=kQytPWMW4BDs8Le-GPE-KA
Noonan doesn’t look well,and corruption in this country seems to be acceptable so doubt we’ll see him in the dock for dodgy deals with his vulture buddies.
Won’t be long before FF returns – as the main party.Something some never thought possible.After Haughey, Ahern, Cowen etc., and virtual bankruptcy.It could only happen here…
Cowen & Haughey still in Dail (Barry & Sean)
@Alanine Pipeline: Don’t forget FF junior partners in government after next election Sinn Fein
Enda is a disgraced leader,he brought politics to a new low in this country.
John Bruton must be turning in his grave.
@@mdmak33: EU needs another Irish Poodle,this one has been slapped around too much.
FF, FG are all shit heads. Alan Farrell less than 48 hours ago voted confidence in E Kenny. What type of a dick head are fine Gael. If right was right they all should be arrested for treason of this country. This includes FF,FG,labour,greens.
This is part of the process. The leader is the party gets the blame and gets ousted so that voters give the party a chance at the next election since it’s “under new management”.
@Derek Walsh:Same shit – different faeces.
Alan Farrell will be out on his hole not too far behind Enda, God willing.
The only people in the country who seemingly have/had confidence in kenny was the FG party.
I wonder what Regina “Satan” Doherty thinks of this …
In fairness most of the people in ireland think he’s a shambolic mess of a politician so this bs they were spouting that he’s this great influencial figure in Europe isn’t gonna wash with anybody in ireland.
The Garda Commissioner has complete confidence in Enda Kenny and vice versa.
Alan Farrell is a sitting member of the PAC who are currently looking into NAMA. This TD should concentrate on his job rather than distract away from NAMa selling stock undervalued.
Alan’s just looking to raise his own profile and a bit of self preservation in anticipation of Enda jumping or being pushed out of the position.
Actually ! A politician saying what the rest of his party thinks !
Sharks circling , don’t mind eating their own ☺
Alan, I am sure Enda will say that the feeling is mutual.
“Uneasy is the head that wears the crown” (Henry IV),Beware the Ides of March in yonder Trump Castle EndaIt  is Leo who wields the dagger
First sensible thing I’ve heard come out of that morons mouth.
rat.Jump.Ship.Sinking.
typical FG imploding from the inside out
Poor Alan Fartwell off on a solo run to get the Grandstand seat, hopefully he falls on his ass, Donkey.
They are all self serving greed mongers
My guess:Wednesday 15th March.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Yeah, the Ides of March. Hopefully IndaKinny will be politically assassinated by Varadkar & other BlueShirts by that time. Then it’ll be BlueBlouse Fitzy’s & Dracula Harris’s turns next…
Could be wrong but I think ff made a mistake not pulling the plug fg elect new leader and call a election ff will look like fools and can’t come along and say fg army fit to rule
Another one bite’s the dust.
Mr Farrell must have amnesia did he not vote confidence in Enda 2days ago!!
Too many politicians and too many public servants , many of them not doing their work competently or efficiently leading to more expense , tribunals and lawsuits, waste everywhere, allowances and perks galore, someone at every juncture to dip into our pockets and give us what in return ?, a broken sad thing that given the choice nobody would pay for. And then you’ll be told we’re all in this together, Are we f….k .!
Un-sackable civil servants run the country, the yes minister sketch show that used to be on years ago was frighteningly accurate. So it makes no difference who is the minister  /  Taoiseach, they are just the public face to take the flac or praise. In fairness Enda Kenny has done ok as Taoiseach, he did take over when things were at an all time low with the the IMF in the country and in reality there was / is nothing better in opposition.   I love they way many of the contributors to this site complain and give out about the state this country is in. If you feel its so bad put your head above the parapet run in the next election, get elected and change the system. Ye remind me of the man complaining about the dark but wouldn’t turn on the light. But his time is up and it will be interesting to see who replaces him. probable will be Leo.
@Anthony O Reilly:What about all the promises he made and broke?Here’s a little reminder (get the sick bag ready):https://irishelectionliterature.com/2010/10/07/fine-gael-party-political-broadcast-may-2007-contract-for-a-better-ireland/
@Anthony O Reilly: And here it is along with smug mugshot:https://irishelectionliterature.com/2013/10/13/the-contract-for-a-better-ireland-fine-gael-2007-leaflet/
Well that’s Alan off Enda’s Easter egg list .
Does anyone think that Leo Varadkar has anything to with this?  After all I think they share the same constituency.  In my opinion the whole thing is total stupidity.  Any manager or CEO would be given at least 3 months to clear their desk and deal with upcoming commitments and have an orderly handover. Regardless of the rights & wrongs Kenny should be allowed to carry on to the summer recess and a new leader take over in September.  The whole thing has overshadowed the McCabe situation and I think there is a lot more to be worried about than who said what where & when.  It’s like a bunch of schoolkids in a playground fight being egged on by the media.  To be fair to Kenny the media have given him a tough time since he became leader of FG seizing on every imagined unimportant slip up. If he was a Dublin TD he would have had a much easier time of it. Unfortunately he does not belong to the Old Boys Network or Dublin Golden Circle and was and has been viewed by the Dublin media as nothing more than a jumped up unsophisticated culchie.  Well I think he has proved that he is far from that.
You must be off your meds Colleen. He is nothing more than a jumped up unsophisticated culchie… a craven, sycophantic, sleveen embarrassment. Culchie Lives Matter, eh?
Don’t hold back daffy….it always amuses me when the fg heads blame the Dublin media….Kenny is all and more what you said he is ….colleen….you’re a fruitloop . ..
@Colleen Kilbane:  I  don’t  think for one minute that Varadkar would have anything to do with this light-weight Farrell.Farrell is a dead duck come the next election. The people of Fingal can’t wait to dump him, he’s a self serving fool who tried the same “look at me” tactic making stupid accusations under Dail privilege before Christmas.He’s an “also ran”…
Jeez colleen…..so it’s all Dublins fault? No wonder a gombeen like Kenny thrived with people like you…..
@Daffy the Bear:  Dublin zoo your from  I presume !
@Bernard O’Brien: This is happening in other parts of the public sector under this governments watch see my friends videos along with other whistleblowers at the university of Limerick here they give a brief message and some examples of how they were treated for speaking outhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B2MBZtUo6Pc&feature=youtu.be
Just thrown away his career – how does that feel, I wonder?
The banana republic would be well rid of Inda and the Up Mayo brigade. The gombeens are itching to get to the ballot box to give their No.1′s to the cute hoors of the land. Berties mob will be beside themselves at the thought of the irish gombeen heading to the polls. “Yeah lads we’ll be back soon heaping any aul shi£e on the two legged sheep out there” happy days lads and ladeens. And just in time too for the aul Galway tent to be pitched.
Has he principles or balls.
Trying to protect his own job and appear by calling  for Ends resignation. But of you take a wide view of the 99% of the politicians are just self serving vermin out for themselves and the wider Irish public is the free gravy train gold encrusted platinum freebie these parasites expect the Irish public to keep on paying. Like the Who song wont get fooled again and lyrics of ” meet the new boss same as the old boss” is apt.
Alan Farrell – this guy when Mayor of fingal demanded a car- was refused as mayors of fingal don’t get cars – went out to a dealership & convinced them that it would be good for there business – got a car then demanded that he get a  driver from Fingal County council staff – only officer grade – refused again according to Fingal County Council staff and- oh he employed his wife as his PA
It’s still happening to whistleblowers in the public sector my friend gives a brief message on YouTube with some examples there is two videos there at the moment it has been so hard on themhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B2MBZtUo6Pc&feature=youtu.be
Fair play to someone having the courage of their convictions!
Did this man not vote confidence 3days ago in Enda, so is he a real fool r what is he at. It’s any wonder we are where we are. A joke just like F/F an independents
Did this man not vote confidence 3days ago in Enda, so is he a real fool r what is he at. It’s any wonder we are where we are. A joke just like F/F an independents.
People in Sheriff street are have been given an awful lot. Most of them don’t even work but expect free handouts?
It’s the next generation you need to convince. Provide job opportunities as well as educational advancement, make that the norm and you’ll get regeneration over a decade. It’s not a quick fix.
Fiachra Ahern Esq. What do you know about Sheriff Street. What do you know about the people of Sheriff Street and the north inner city. Do you even know where Sheriff Street is. How do you know most of them don’t work.Are you from the area. I would love to hear how you gained such an insight into the area and the people who live there.
Everyone’s an expert until there not.
I think you’ve missed the point of the story there Fiachra.
@Fiachra Ahern Esq: Apply for a job in Fianna Gael. I’d say a Social Welfare position should do it.
@ray.farrelly: Great insight. These people cast stones from nice comfy lives where they have benefited form a system made by them and for them.
Well said Christopher.
I’m from Sherriff street, lived here or around the area all my life, my family have lived there all their lives back in the flats and then moved into houses, we have all worked every single one of us, but there is a nasty element to that street, fear and intimidation from a small minority does not allow people to  speak up for fear of having their homes or their lives ruined. I love the area but it needs a serious fixing and it’s not a quick fix it needs.
No one should have to deal with a lot of things you’ve made happen mr kenny.
Politicians are great men to listen !
@Chris Tobin: They are worse to play along for the cameras. Thats why Ireland has rotten politicians because we haven’t the balls to stand byour convictions.
… to their own bs!
What makes the north inner city of Dublin so special. I don’t see any where else in the country getting such treatment.
The kinahans live there apparently. Any excuse to get an armed police force.
Fine Gael got very few votes there last time that’s why they have been spending s lot of time there
Must be coming up to an election……
Well it’s an area that hasn’t seen any investment in decades. The Sheriff St area always had a bit of a reputation in Dublin and obviously over the past 10 years or so there have been several high profile murders there. To encourage the next generation to move away from the cycle of violence and killings requires investment in education facilities and initiatives like job apprenticeship schemes. The alternative is to let the area slip deeper into the abyss and we all end up paying for it now and our kids in the next generation.
What it needs is to be completely demolished from the canal to the Liffey and replaced with structured 6 story blocks with increased green areas and individual community centres for each block. The half assed regeneration that built those red brick half houses on top of each other, while facilitating the same community enforcement structures (i.e. gangsters) in place was a cop out.
As if this clown gives a flying *you know what* about anybody but himself and his survival.
Thirty extra guards by year end. And what about the rest of us??. What about what Maurice McCabe has had to put up with. Lasted longer and was much more serious than being called a knacker. But that’s good old Edna. Make fish of one and flesh of another. And when’s he retiring??? Soon I hope. Everyone should be spared his idea of kindness
Nothing to worry about, Mary. Apart from Mulvey not bring competent to complete a report like this (no experience in management, regeneration or politics), it is going to be put in the bottom of the drawer that Enda puts in a black sack on his way out next month (after doing an ahern and getting one more White House junket). What the inner city needs – regeneration and replacing the community structure, what they got – waffling politicians and media.
27 years I lived in it my god what a kip. It’s a shame most people tared us all with the one brush because there’s alot of good people down there.
Its there in a nutshell. Enda visited local businesses and told them to do something about the community. Anyone suggest to Enda that maybe thats his job?
Enda turns up for every jobs announcement with a smug grin and his thumbs up. Why do you never see a politician when job losses are being announced? Inner city areas have been run down for decades. But that’s all part of the plan. This is prime real estate in FGs eyes.
No evidence this was said at all. He probably just didn’t get the job and thinks he’s a victim. Like everybody these days.
What a load of BS! Has he started his election campaign already? He is certainly not doing this for the people who live in the city that have had a hard time over the last few years with shootings and drug wars , the government did this year’s ago and moved people out of the city to outskirts and all that did was push the problem further away! The problem is letting the drug’s in, pump the money into stopping that and the rest will follow!
Haha let’s reelect Kenny and is henchmen. They will sort it all out next time
Maybe they couldn’t understand his English and thought he was speaking Portuguese. Nor I Mean!
@Imnotrodten:It would sort you out nicely.
What Sheriff Street needs most is a Sheriff.
Can anyone tell me the purpose of these visits. His policies in government create poverty and misery on a daily basis. He is the polar opposite of the people who live on Sherrif Street. I cannot understand why anyone with any principles would want to meet Kenny unless its just a photo propaganda opportunity for Fianna Gael who are so caring that they even rub shoulders with people they hold in daily contempt.
“We’re going to prove it. It’s not the case of publishing this report and then throwing the report out the window… we’re going to deliver.”Well that would be a first !
Neither constructive or humorous..But I guess you have your reasons.
No one should have had to be dealing with Kenny as taoiseach for the last 6 years but here we are, and people are sorry now!
I lived in Summerhill D1 with my family for six years. The treatment we got there was like a living hell. We tried a lot of TD’S and community people for help but nothing was done for us.
@Imnotrodten: Never mind Edna, this f.g troll speaks for the majority of f.g and its supporters.
I didn’t know it is possible to discriminate against a bloke. This country is coming on…
Paul was standing up for what people in the inner city in general have to face in applying for jobs just because of their address.  Paul is now in his dream job but it took alot longer than it would have if he lived in a more well to do area.  He is far from a knacker and was brought up well even if it was in the city centre.  Their are a few discriminate remarks about him in the comments here so it just proves the point in his comments…
Paul was standing up for what people in the inner city in general have to face in applying for jobs just because of their address.  He got his dream job but it took alot longer than it would have if he lived in a more well to do area.  He is far from a knacker and was brought up well even if it was in the city centre.  There are a few discriminate remarks about him in the comments here so it just have proven his point…
How does a politician ‘instruct’ companies I wonder?
FFS and people on trollies in hospitals. If there’s wrong doing criminal charges should be brought not micky mouse tribunals held. What have any of these tribunals achieved….
I don’t care about what politician A said to politician B, if they can’t establish criminal wrongdoing then this whole thing is a jackpot for the legal profession and a waste of time and money for everyone else.
@Science of beer: Only in Ireland can this crap continue to roll out every day of the week.   It’s a money making racket now.   The only losers are you & me the tax payer
But at least all the wrong doers are stick on jail paying for… ohhhhh..yes….Ireland..dopey moi!
@John S:  The establishment political classes and state apparatus through their incompetence, corruption, cronyism, and cute hoorism, have caused  the necessity for all the Tribunals which has cost the citizens of this so called Republic  500, 000,000 Euro and will continue to cost them.   How many social houses could be built for that money? 2000 at 250,000 each, instead of going into the pocket’s of the already wealthy legal eagles, who of course many are friend’s and family of the same political classes that caused the need for the Tribunal’s.  Not one of those found guilty of corruption or dodgy dealing went to jail.
Over €300million to date spent on Inquiries and one of them still being milked by the legal profession!! Crazy or what? We have a former Taoiseach and a sitting TD still earning a substantial income from the State despite findings of questionable behaviour. (legal restraints prevent us calling it as it should be).The Dail,has just approved the setting up of yet another Publicly funded Inquiry without the necessary safeguards to prevent another free ATM being provided for the legal vultures yet again.Will the McCabe or Harrison families be vindicated by it? I seriously doubt it.
Yes indeed folks, that tells us all we need to know about the usefulness of tribunals. It’s just jobs for the boys. It’s sickening.
Unbelievable that anyone involved can wheel in a whole legal team at the State’s expense. Let them pay for any extra work.
Can the author of this article delve a little deeper and get a breakdown of the costs. Who was paid what and for what. Ye know, a little investigating like old journos used to to.
@ChuckE:  Like what the IT did a couple of years ago, it’s old info so add a couple of more million to the names in this list.http://www.irishtimes.com/news/ireland/irish-news/moriarty-tribunal-costs-top-50-million-1.2054236
Would someone be able too tell me why no one has been charged the real reason or is there one
Legislation establishing tribunals was set up in such a way that it couldn’t function with the full powers of a court. While they can find guilty they have no powers of conviction and their evidence cannot later be used in an actual court setting. That said, if they had even set up in such a way that the party found guilty would be liable for the full legal costs then we would have been fine. As it stands, someone engaged in corruption can effectively penalise the taxpayer for attempting to expose their corruption.
Exactly what is the point of these tribunals when their findings are treated as an irrelevance? If Denis obrien and Michael Lowry had been sent to prison like they should have been, for their involvement in the state’s largest ever fraudulent transaction, then why do we bother enriching the legal class?
U just cudnt make this stuff up, nothing suprises me anymore, the gravy train rolls on
Administration Fees, Third Party Costs and Other Payments are buzz words/phrases used to filter in monies spent on private transport, restaurants, bars and hotel rooms……
The trough just gets bigger and bigger. Jail time = 0.
20years on and still paying WTF
If only there had been a recent opportunity to reform the legal professions and maybe control costs a little. Oh that’s right there was and the government caved in cos they’re cowards.
We still have the Nama and Siteserv tribunals to come yet. The Cronies Club are having a big party the weekend to celebrate.
Where is the DPP? Why have O’Brien and Lowry not been prosecuted? Another FG/FF cover up?
TD and businessman found to be in the wrong. Both just say, “nah”. Neither face consequences. So the point of this tribunal is what exactly?
Can anyone provide a breakdown on how the money was spent?
It would also be interesting to see how we compare with other European countries when it comes to holding tribunals.
Fact.The state now has spent €305 Million on tribunals to date.The Moriarty Tribunal alone, without the cost of another €10m this year, has cost so far €54.74 Million in total – with little or no criminal prosecutions!€54.25 Million has been spent on the Mahon Tribunal. Little or no prosecutions have resulted from that also. The final bill for that tribunal is expected to be €159 Million.The Morris tribunal is at €70 Million – little or no prosecutions there also.The IBRC Commission final bill is expected to be €10 Million. Don’t hold your breath for anyone to be accountable there either?It could be commented that those only gaining from tribunals, are the legal firms of Ireland. They win – the state loses big time – with little or no prosecutions to boot!
What a kip of a country.
“I’m focused on my job”…no sh#t sherlock..if u call your performance this last week focused..good luck with that..embarrassing is a much better word.
What’s he focused on.???
His belly button!
@sparky:Yes. AND A leader of what.
@Kerry Gallagher: konga, hes an animal konga leader just ask the rest of fg
Is Fitzgerald not going to be forced to resign also? As she was caught lying to the Dail last week in an attempt to prevent the Tusla file making it into the terms of reference for the McCabe enquiry.
I’m focused on my job as leader of the Country, with the help of the new band in town, Brother Martin and the Abstainers……
Enda definitely not the person to tackle trump..
His paper and crayons
Being the small turd in the middle of three turds???.
@sparky: Focused on my pensions is more likely.
@Enda Ireland: Focused on the cost to the tax payer of their gymhttp://www.irishmirror.ie/news/irish-news/politics/just-one-politician-per-day-9833169Dear God…
On a serious note these lads have perverted the course of justice and yet they remain. What sick regime are we.
Focused on buttering the scones, that’s all he’s good for!
@Peadar Ó Gréacháin: The elite of the country, the banks, vulture funds, corporations. The rest of the country can go whistle as far as he’s concerned.
His crayons and big colouring book
“Oh my God. They haven’t killed Kenny yet! You ba*ta*ds!”
Jesus wept
Just wait until he says may a culpa may a culpa to Trump Go now before Trump cast you to the Lions
Coveney
Noonans mortgage discounts for vulture funds while denying Irish people was enough of a reason for ek to go. Oddly, it took McCabe to do it. I admire the strength of McCabe. Whether ’tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune or to take arms against a sea of troubles (Hamlet).
C’est tous. C’est finis. Bon voyage.
He will be going to see Trump…after that..he has every reason to jump ship. As much as I dislike the current administration I want someone to support our folks over there. So we send who we have… end of..so lets stop a quibbling.
Lets hope his wife is not GARDA Unlike Noreen and Francis PS And neither what was going on Give me Dreak
It is truly hard to feel anymore disillusioned with Irish politics than right now, kenny is an embarrassment of a politician and the thoughts of Leo or Simon in the hot seat honestly seems even worse than what we have now given the car crash state of their departments .When will we actually have a someone representing the country to be proud of!
Just go . , so we can all get on with our lives . I’m Sick to the back teeth of the lot of them. I cringe reading the news lately. All they care about is themselves, not the man in the street . Heartless bunch of wasters.
Commissioner wins
Enda story enda
Standard issue sleveen politician. He tried every trick in the book in the Dail on Tuesday, and that book is called ‘Haughey era filth politics 101″. The country deserves better instead of mounting multiple national emergencies.
Haughey could learn a bit about corruption and cronyism from kenny.
no haughey would have had 3 or 4 kenny’s before his main meal
@For Connolly: Look at the IMF, Irish Water and this government?Here is a clue…“John Perkins, Former Advisor IMF.“My job was to identify countries with resources that corporations covert, like oil and then arrange a huge loan to that country from the World Bank or from one of its sister organisations. The money however would not go to the country, it would go to our own corporations who would make huge profits, but the majority of the people would suffer terrible as a result, because money would be diverted from Education, Healthcare and other Social Services to pay interest on the debt.”What happened when the IMF moved in and the debt couldn’t be repaid?“We go back into that country and say, since you can’t pay your debt, sell your resource oil or whatever real cheap to our corporations without any environmental restrictions or, or social regulations. Privatise, sell your electric utilities, your water, sewage systems, your schools, your jails, all your public sector businesses to our corporations, and in the few cases where we failed economic hitman, the jackals went in and still do and aah, they either assassinate the leaders of the country or overthrow them in coups.”
Just go, for the love of God GO.
Excellent News! They all deserve one another! Unfortunately we continue to suffer. This will hasten the #GE2017
GE2017 Time to start trying to pick out the least useless of the lot. How good would it be to have some faith in any of them? It’s going to be a very difficult job to try and pick any of them to vote for.
Cheerio, Cheerio, Cheerio…
A good day for the country when he goes,Germany would take him for the fantastic service he’s given.
@Dave cullen: Oh, I’m sure he’ll be he’ll be shoehorned onto the board of one of the companies owned by a certain billionaire, just like Cowen was.
@For Connolly: what eu job do you think he will get? and we can rule out hogans secretary as he is not a she!
Dear Enda,Before they give you the flick could you please fix up the Car Insurance cartel.As returned retirees (we live 4 months a year in Ireland) we are refused car insurance by Ireland’s 15 car insurers because we do not have EU, UK or Irish driving licences. Instead we have Aussie licences with International Drivingpermits which entitled to drive anywhere in western Europe-including Ireland- for 12 months.So much for the Gathering and all that bullshit!Yours faithfullyMoorookamickIrish Citizen
@Moorooka Mick:  that is truly shocking!
Came back from NL after 10yrs claim free. 2k for 1.6 mondeo. They don’t accept no claims from Europe countries only uk
Moorakamick Edna is very focused……on being a great leader well so HE thinks. He has the pots and pans to sell yet so he can’t be focusing on your insurance problems. In fact he will probably get one of his advisers to write you and tell you of the back to work cycle scheme. I know I know your retired but Edna won’t like you sitting around for four months. He’s got great plans for us all you know. Lol
Mary, the system does not care Ek or no Ek
OK, here’s my tuppence worth.Lucky country lad, a bit slow but eager inherits political seat through fortune of birthright.For 35 years he sits in Dail Eireann a complete non entity like a farmer at a cattle mart in Mayo longing to spit on his hand and shake a deal with someone.Ends up in government by default, puts in the hours but gradually becomes delusional through association with world leaders of stature and convinces himself he is indispensable to the country, his own fate inextricably bound up with the destiny of the nation.
@Emmet O’Keeffe:  Absolutely, because Fianna Fáil has and never will produce a leader as ridiculous and ill-equipped as you’ve described. It’s not as if his government saved us from a permanent economic catastrophe embarrassment on the part of his much revered predecessors. I mean as far a consistently falling unemployment and an astronomically fast rate of economic growth is concerned, its all Enda Kenny’s fault.
He failed in the end. Mccabe.
@Ronan Murphy:Oh yeah, the 26% growth rate, forgot about that.
At least some of the blueshirts are being realistic. Enda has to go. C’est la vie Kenny.
This place Ireland stopped being a country since 1973. Ireland is the new “East Germany” with obedient Kapo’s  like Enda, Martin,Ryan, Gerry, are all fully paid up to dismantle piece by piece the last vesitges of   the nation state  and forge ahead with the new EU Superstate which all blindly support.
I agree. Well said. Ireland can choose a border with n.i. or join the UK. Eu is over once gb leaves. Their $ contribution was huge who will pay? Holland too not happy. Geert Wilders pvv tops the poll. Ain’t looking good.
Some political careers end in failure.Kenny distinguished himself by being a failure throughout his period as Taoiseach.
@Tony Daly: All political careers end in failure of some sort, especially when the nature of the office is dependent on the constant support of your peers.By what measure a failure? History will treat him very well regardless as the Taoiseach that delivered us from the financial crisis precipitated by Fianna Fáil, yet it appears the public seem oblivious to the lesson that you should learn from your mistakes. He was by no means perfect, no leader is. His fallibility was not a political weakness under which the public somehow suffered, but a contrast to the Berties, Haugheys and De Valeras of political history. So when his legacy is judged by the Leaving Certificate History course in 2047, I’m confident future students like myself, and the population in general will consider him as one of the greatest Taoisigh we’ve ever had.
Jesus h @Ronan Murphy you need some serious meds!
Ronan, he taxed us to death. Usc. Then added new taxes to spike rents including prsi + usc then LPT. He managed Irish water. Started with 4.88eur/m3 while Holland is 1. 59/m3. The replaced commisioner Callington with his right hand woman insider O’Sullivan.
mismanaged iw
@Ronan Murphy: if I were you I would not take history for the leaving
He really is a Virus.
Like ahern , cowen before him he will be dragged out .
It took a Tribunal to get rid of Ahern.It took the threat of a Tribunal to get rid of Kenny.
That’s some holding on for dear life sake! It feels awkward…
Things we cannot change we have to accept. That is equally difficult as uneasy.
Any sign of Brian Hayes. He is usually out defending our great leader
I think he’s in Brussels
Ba da ba ba ba I’m loving it
The Black Sheep
hard luck enda, sorry to hear finnoula is shacking up with simon mad dog harris
I look forward to the sycophantic and servile submission by Kenny to Trump.
Your a gonner Ends ☺
back to the cheap seats where it all began
Keep popping the happy pills Enda
He will need to be a witness at the Tribunal of Inquiry.
The joke of the year ‘I’m focused on my job as leader of the country’ because he can’t do anything without Merkel’s say so. How many budgets did the German government do for us, 8 in total, are they not ashamed?What makes a leader is confidence and self esteem as well as being about to do what they want and not go after unelected members in the E.U. to beg to do things that would be the democratic right of any leader of their country.
Enda, do it your way, if you wanna Stay,Stay, if ya wanna Go, then Go but don’t End a good run by being shafted.One thing you might consider before you go, On Paddy’s Day you might come up Trump’s by giving ol’ Donny a good kick in the Nuts when he is holding the bowl.
I will only accept that Enda has left the stage when someone shows me his corpse with  a stake driven through the place where his heart should be. And even then I wouldn’t  be entirely sure that he was finished. This guy has better survival instincts than a wounded Ballina sewer rat.
Cmon Kenny just please please please tell us when ur finally gonna f$&k off we’ve tried our hardest to vote you out ur like a poisoned boomerang
Methinks that all the posts in this comment section are from people who just want Kenny to resign for no reason other than ‘a fresh face’, or something to argue about. Leading a minority government propped up by the mercy (or opportunism) your arch-enemy is not easy, and abdicating your office and responsibilities will not resolve all the ills of the state. Kenny is not incompetent, or really guilty of any wrongdoing. Rather, it is perceived that way both by the poor handing of the McCabe case on the part of an Garda Síochana, Nóirín O’Sullivan office and indeed Katherine Zappone, who’s treatment of this controversy is reflective of her amateurish approve as a novice minister. The recent opinion polls don’t help, by my God, if there’s something that we learned in the past few years is that there are as about reliable as British transport. He will resign in due course, I’m skeptical of the rumours of a heave, as a forced removal from office could bode badly for any of the contenders, particularly Coveney  who’s likely to lose against Varadkar. Not to mention the imminent election as a result, which puts on a bad facade for the party in general.
@Ronan Murphy:  I have many reasons for wanting Kenny’s departure, not least the role of Kenny in facilitating the continuing maltreatment of Sergeant McCabe.
@Tony Daly: Explain to me how Kenny himself directly, negatively contributed to the McCabe case? You can’t expect leaders to just buckle at the sign of pressure and demand a resignation. But tell me, why do you really want him to resign?
Ronan Murphy not the best comment. Your beaten hands down by funnier and shorter posts
IW failed mis-managed. vulture funds paying zero tax on rent.McCabe: ek chose to replace predecessor w/same. increased rental taxes by 11% +LPT so higher. gave 75% discounts on property to foreign vulture funds thru Mama. Got no deal from ecb on debt write down. Increased car tax on older cars 3x. car insurance gone insane. emergency 7% usc tax made permanent
@Ronan Murphy: Because Kenny lied to the Dail during the week and obviously knows an awful lot more than he is letting on. I might add all of them in Dáil Éireann know an awful lot more than they are letting on. Had this happened across the water there would have been at least 3 resignations but our not so glorious politicians have to be dragged kicking and screaming and will cling to power at all costs.
@Ronan Murphy: Short memory or you like him, property tax, water charges, USC, IMF, ECB, Troika, the last 9 years of failure?http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.C_.2016.299.01.0065.01.ENG&toc=OJ%3AC%3A2016%3A299%3ATOC“Expand and accelerate the implementation of activation policies to increase the work intensity of households and address the poverty risk of children.Pursue measures to incentivise employment by tapering the withdrawal of benefits and supplementary payments.”So the EU wants here to create work by throwing people off the dole???https://ec.europa.eu/ireland/news/eu-commissioner-moscovici-in-dublin-today-remarks-to-media_enSo the EU tells us everything, no matter what the UK says or does the final word always lies with the EU. That is not democratic at all.
Because he is of the pot bellied variety like all his party.mates and ff/Ian a shower of the brown stuff and traitors to this country and as bad as brendan smyth.
The problem with politicians in the parties here is that they are brain washed into bubbles, these bubbles are reinforced by others similar to them with similar desires and beliefs.They try to please the powerful in order to become like the powerful and they follow the crowd, that is why they can’t see the harm they are doing because of their mentality which is forged in university and in careers like the educational system. Their careers tell them how to treat people around them as they start in politics as yes people in order to climb that poll and then when they get to the top jobs they still act the same way running after those in the EU Parliament. They don’t get it as they are out to please the top dogs the whole time as in you scratch my back and I will scratch yours from favours to donations.They believe the corrupt state of things based on a corrupt asystem is good, they believe good comes from corrupt dealings and corrupt systems, once there is a trickle down systen that has an outcome. They never question anything, they say the single market is good but needs the EU for that but yet in reality we don’t as it is the WTO who has forced people into these trade deals and EU system that only looks after the very big businesses like banks and other giant companies. So in fact the single market exists for the giants of commerce and not for the small person. Why you ask and that is because they have lobbyists and donators to political parties.http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-26014387
People are told that the way the political system is now is good for them and the fact is that it is toxic and what do the parties do herebut play the old civil war bull every election time hoping people are as stupid as they want them to be and that is one reason the politics here is as twisted as a screw nail?So in fact we get politics and leaders that we deserve becausewe will not wake up to all the lies and the bull, we ar to blame when it comes to the political outcomes that develope here because we voted for it and them?
focused on the pension. Deceitful traitor to Ireland and unfit to run the place long before this scandal.
C’est la vie. Seriously! The muppet is as deluded as they come.
Will ye go lassie go!
Lol.
he cant even leave with a little grace, hanging round like a bad smell.
10/10 for the photographer
Striking resemblance to Steve Davis the snooker player !!!!
Steve Davis has more balls though
Nick, ……or the photo editor, more likely.
I can’t help but imagine Enda Kenny as Kim Jong Il in Team America instead singing Along Along The Watchtower as he wonders in disillusionment why the masses don’t understand him and how he can escape their criticisms.
Pity he wasn’t under a sign that reads bollix
@Tony Skillington: Not needed – we know it lol!
Tony …you beat me to it…
@ Tony, A bollix has its uses.
Tony at least he will beside one on St Patrick’s Day imagine to have to look at that photo next month
@Tony Skillington: Funny as the truth is the following…http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.C_.2016.299.01.0065.01.ENG&toc=OJ%3AC%3A2016%3A299%3ATOC“Expand and accelerate the implementation of activation policies to increase the work intensity of households and address the poverty risk of children.Pursue measures to incentivise employment by tapering the withdrawal of benefits and supplementary payments.”So the EU wants here to create work by throwing people off the dole???https://ec.europa.eu/ireland/news/eu-commissioner-moscovici-in-dublin-today-remarks-to-media_enSo the EU tells us everything, no matter what the UK says or does the final word always lies with the EU. That is not democratic at all.
Oh he’ll ride it out though, he’ll wait until this has died down and then ‘step down to spend more time with the family’. And rte and obrien’s media will ensure his memory is nothing shy of greatness.
Well boohoo to him.  Maurice MC cabe has been saying that for years and they didn’t seem fit to help him .. wonder how enda is feeling this morning after the shameful scenes in the dail last night and fg readily using the terminology to other TDs of playing political football while those sitting on the benches with him where plotting to do exactly same thing . Play  political football and use this shameful episode as catalyst for a coup, heave …
Headlines like this.. sure endas problem is mute compared to it…Maurice McCabe says he ‘probably wouldn’t do it again’“Eight years of abuse – eight years of constant abuse.”
After eight years of suffering , the troubles of the McCabe family are reduced to a political football by our media. The smear campaign by our media on the ruling party at the expense of the McCabe family follows the exact same journey as the media’s ‘objective’ coverage of the Roman Catholic Church hierarchy’s dealing with the child sexual abuse. The victims became ammunition just as the McCabe family are the current targets. Mary L. McDonald was honest in her representation of our political activists with her reply when she advised Brian Dobson that a general election would be preferable to the continuation of a process to establish an enquiry into the McCabe affair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F-EvFQvoAt4journal don’t bother apologizing for his corruption
Enda Bell end Kenny is a Liar….  :-) thanks to the people that voted him in
https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-10/4/12/asset/buzzfeed-prod-web04/sub-buzz-26075-1475600325-1.jpg?resize=990:660
Enda the village idiot  thinking  of the Beatles song HELP comes to mind and wishing Merkel or May would help him out.
This, now quite an art when practiced by humans photogs, will soon become a game of drones and with the sort of cams can be fitted to the smallest drones now along with machine vision, text recognition and autonomous swarming…might be best for their blushes if politicians wore hoodies or even hats with batteries powering IR bulb arrays when not consciously standing under signs that only say “Brilliant” “Hurray” “Magic” and so on.The photogs  will not only be able to telecommute to work with a joystick and screens setup in their homes but be able to label targets with programming enabling them to be followed invisibly all day and a pic taken whenever an appropriate and/of unfortunate sign hoves into view alongside or above them.  Gosh. The heart bleeds.  Still. First they came for the politicians and I did not stand up for them because I was not a politician etc.  Ask not for whom the cam-drone whirs and clicks..
Be worse if ir said GO?
Another example of just how cancerous partition has been for this island, north and south.
@Tír Eoghain Gael: You can thank your government for that, we didn’t ask for Brexit.
@Tír Eoghain Gael:What’s this “south” you speak of? Perhaps you refer to Cork or Kerry or Wexford, ie the South of Ireland. Or Perhaps you mean the Republic of Ireland?And how has partition been bad for the Republic of Ireland?
True, it’s only been bad for NI and after Brexit it’ll be even worse
@Fred Jensen: how has partition helped the border counties especially Donegal?  Can you tell me how the troubles had a positive impact on the ROI?
“North”, is just as much of a misnomer, since Malin Head is in the “South”Partition has been bad for Ireland (which is the name of the state, not “the Republic of Ireland”)  firstly because it created an artificially huge majority which gave the Catholic Church too much power. It created a sectarian state on the island which inevitably led to conflict which spilled over the border. Apart from getting a lot of people killed it was economic poison for the border regionIt created competing economies on a tiny island, with the result that billions of IR£ and € have gone into the tills in Newry and Derry. Of course, money has come the other way but that money would’ve been on Ireland anyway without partition.So partition has made us poorer, which of course contributes to emigration. It leaves the state with less money for services and social care. It kills people, and provides an opportunity for criminals to flourish. It makes policing those criminals more difficult because two police forces and legal jurisdictions are involved.Above all, it has denied the Irish state the talents and work ethic of 1/5th of its people, making us poorer in every sense. And what’s it’s done to the north has been even worse.Partition has been a catastrophe
The best thing about partition is that people like Tyrone live in a different country.
Catastrophe – perhaps. The alternative – death and destruction…
@Imnotrodten: you like fred Jensen/Johnson are another troll.  what was the name of the 2nd account that you were caught making the exact same comments from????
Marshmallow man. He is a troll like me. We’re all trolls. Anybody who can read a map is a troll. Tyrone is a apologist for terrorists.
@Emeralds:Nonsense. WIthout partition, there would have been civil war anyway in the 1920′s except it would have been Ulster vs the rest. And the troubles would have been infinitely worse for the last 100 years and infected and poisoned politics in Dublin.
@Imnotrodten: at least we know you use multiple accounts and won’t be using your marshmallow man account in this article to backup your comments.
Maybe I’m Tyrone, maybe I’m you. There is no way to prove otherwise
Marlowemallow/Imnotrodten: Can we partition Rockall and put you there?
Don’t think it’s big enough for two border posts so no.
Enid needs to tell us exactly what this ‘agreement he has with the British government’. What exactly does the sound bite of ‘ no hard borders of the past’ actually mean and how they will work.Anything else is just him thinking with himself again
@ Fred Johnston You speak with such conviction, but unfortunately you are taking about a what-if scenario so there is no way of knowing it would’ve been “infinitely worse”. Maybe it would’ve been better; we would have had a bigger population and economy, the Catholic church may not have had the chokehold it had. There are many what-ifs in your scenario, but I would have liked to see how our little island turned out had it been united from the start.
Fred johnston; so you  accept that the 6 county statelet was born out of Unionist refusal to respect the democratic will expressed in the 1918 election. That threatened unionist violence and the first private ‘army’ to arm themselves( UVF 1912) backed up in 1920 by British threats of ” immediate and terrible war” is the birth right of that failed statelet on this island.Yet you brand those who have resisted that and its on going sectarian core as ‘ terrorist’!!!
@Fred Jensen: The 26 Counties is the best name. Therein lies your answer.
@Ruairi O Neill:There was not one sectarian state on this island as a result of partitiion. There was two. Are you suggesting if the two were merged that there would be religious and secular harmony?
@Ruairi O Neill: I appreciate that this is the internet and there are multiple account posters and trolls here. But I am not Imnotrodten and nor am I a troll. I don’t expect you to take the word of an anonymous poster on that but you might at least apply the same skepticism to claims by some lunatic like Imnotrodten that he speaks on my behalf and declares that I’m a troll. Or a fascist. Or whatever other random nonsense comes up on the troll bingo card today.
Whatever
@Ruairi O Neill: ..it was never going to be a United Island from the start without far more bloodshed then there already was. How can people not grasp that concept?  The divisions in working class communities in Northern Ireland are bitter and far reaching. Its a senseless hatred built on the fear of losing identities.Lets say you were a deep rooted Unionist and in the morning your once British country with a monarch is replaced by a United Ireland (maybe a Republic) your whole identity/belief is gone in a poof.  Ah sure thats grand… A hard border will be a disaster for all except hardline Unionists as it pushes a United Ireland further away.
@niall brew Of course there would’ve been bloodshed, the unionists were armed to the teeth by the time partition came. But we don’t know how it would’ve panned out in the long run. The divisions , although obviously in existence before partition, were exacerbated by a bigoted Stormont government in the decades after partition.
So, you just like to copy and paste trolls’ comments init your own then?
Gorry is worried he’ll be deported back to the UK.
@Niall Brew: every thing you said was about as wrong as it could be. If we had held out for a united Ireland the loyalist violence wouldn’t have lasted pissing time if the Brits got rid of them, who would support them and what would they be fighting for. A hard border will speed up unification, the one who will suffer most will be unionist businesses and we all know that loyalty to Money means more than anything else. If the u.k is suffering financially under brexit, then the six counties will be the last place London wants to waste money on, when the majority in the six counties see which side their bread is buttered on, they will be begging To be part of the republic. A move that will be financially benifical to everybody on this island.
Hard Brexit = Hard Border
A Hard Border would be the worst thing to happen to peace on this Island since the start of the GFA.. Start putting checkpoints on border roads and waiting until you see how quick you’ll see attacks from the RIRA on the Soldiers or whoever will be manning them..
@David Garland:Ah don’t be so dramatic it’s not the 1960′s. People have better things to be doing. People will just get used to it. Likely traffic will free flow most of the time using number plate recognition software.
@Fred Jensen/johnson: tell that to the dissidents who will blow up the border posts and no doubt threaten the people who will be working there.you really don’t know what you are talking about.
Its called being prepared. If they didnt we’d say their unprepared. Suprised people dont recognise the cta.
Any attempts to set up a hard border in Ireland again would be utter madness. The posts or check points will just be blown up again, and attacked and sniped at – are the Brits or the Europeans prepared for that? Are they willing to risk reigniting the conflict and having to re-militarise the area? Because that what they will have to do if they set up a physical border in Ireland once again. The unnatural division of this country was always a bad idea, it was wrong and they well know it……It is STILL an open sore, still festering away beneath the surface, a red hot tinder-box waiting for a spark. Can the British handle it all firing off once again – the awful pain, the human suffering.. not to mention the expense?  Who in their government, who in Europe, would want such a thing on their shoulders?
Can’t see the people of the North going back to violence over a border brought about by Brexit. There is no other way around it we have to protect our borders. It effects Nationalists and Loyalists equally they’ll have to just get on with it..
Fred I’m not being dramatic.. Go up to Belfast or Lurgan in July and see for yourself how close things are to kicking off again.. What do you think will happen in border Counties North and South of the border if army checkpoints are put in place, young lads with nothing else to do with start joining the ranks of the RIRA.. It’s going to put the peace process back 30 years..
Build a wall and make them pay for it.
@Pádraig Ó Braonáin: Eu could not give a toss
@Diarmuid: who is them?
@Alanine Pipeline: I voted for the constitutional amendment  to agree to ditch the claim of the island of Ireland on condition that the island would have NO borders . If the border returns then the referendum result and the treaty are void .
@Alanine Pipeline: Smuggling whoopee…
Lads time to deal with the real world, rather than the world you’d like to see. In the real world, the Brits are outside the EU, the EU single market and the EU customs union. Ireland remains in all three. That means we need a border between the two customs zones, that’s the case everywhere.Not much sympathy for middle class Catholics in the North who surveys showed have favoured NI remaining in the UK for the last decades. Why should we care about a people that want the benefits of being part of the UK?  If they’re happy to see themselves as British, then they need to accept the result of a British decision.
@Fred Jensen: you do realise that a hard border will benefit nobody on the island?  I have told you the reasons many times yet you still insist on spouting your bull.why was your old account ‘fred johnson’ deleted – is it because you are a troll????
British are outside the EU? We!?
@gjpb:The only troll here is you who constantly feel the need to respond to my comments. I must be having a real psychological effect on you. I feel your pain every time you write to me.
@Fred Jensen: I respond to people who talk tripe and you are one of those.  I really get a kick of calling you out and you not being able to respond :)
@gjpb:If that’s how you get your kicks then i feel even more sorry for you.I actually don’t mind debating the issues with you as i gives me a chance to whoop you
@Fred Jensen: how have you ever whooped me?  you usually can’t respond and we don’t hear of you in that article again.  you never responded to my comment above how partition was good for Donegal??
children…
@fred Johnson/jensen: thanks for proving my point.  see you in the next article…..
@gjpb: You hardly called him out on it. Why do you think the DUP voted in favor? Because a United Ireland is something they will fight tooth and nail against..hence a hard border benefits them culturally, if not economically.
@Niall Brew: I have called him out on it in numerous other articles and he is unable to answer a question that I asked him twice in this article.I am well aware why the DUP were the only party on this island that voted in favour of brexit.  however, fred is not in the DUP and is one of the few people who insists on a hard border even though he has been told by numerous people time and time again of the disadv of it.
I don’t see any upside to the hard border but I also can’t see any alternative if we wish to remain in EU and the UK wishes to control it’s border.Only other option would be hard border between the UK and NI but that would be quite a political move so I don’t think it is realistic that they will do it. I haven’t seen any alternative solutions to the problem being proposed here though?
There are no other solutions, the border either stays as is or a militarised hard border will be needed, there is no viable in between.
@Niall Brew: the DUP voted out because they are morons who don’t realise great Britain and northern Ireland is a thing of the past and they will soon find out they have no friends in London. Let’s be honest the DUP are not only an embarrassment to the people in the six counties but also the whole of england.
@Mr Phil Officer What about british customs controls at our ports and airports, same as the U.S. does currently in Dublin?
They have to be prepared. It doesn’t mean they favour it.
That’s it in a nutshell.
Yes Edna we certainly believe everything you tell us!! Your word is worth as much as a chocolate kettle
Might interfere with fuel laundering, fags, cattle, criminals smuggling, and a whole host of “fundraising” activities now that would be rather bothersome to some people!!!
@Bill Madden: You’re not wrong there and what’s so hard to understand about Brexit? If UK are out and we are in then the NI border is an EU border. I’m not sure it’s in Enda or Theresa’s power to decide how hard or soft that border is.
@Bill Madden: you think having a border between an e.u country and a state outside the e.u won’t produce opportunities for entrepreneurs on the wrong side of the law then you have a short memory.
Its been obvious that Fine Gael just do whatever Brussels tells them to do. Does anybody believe that Brussels won’t use us as a strategy in their ‘negotiations’ with Britain and does anybody believe that Fine Gael wont just go along.Good children who are delighted with a pat on the head. Good laidin.
Brexit means Brexit
Sinn Fein supporters and Trump sympathisezers are way over represented in the Journal comments. And the Russians of course
I think mark has been filling up on the funny diesel again
@Mark Gearey: So you name call people based on what they believe compared to what you don’t believe?
Sinn Fein wants to know what the results will be of a series of negotiations that haven’t happened yet? Well that’s realistic.
If negotiations have not taken place yet how can Enid have an ” agreement with the British”?????
They probably have an understanding based on the intended negotiation strategy. What that means in Enda’s head could be anything.
So numb skull Enid makes statements in our Dail as the FF supported Taoiseach and Sinn Fein as the true opposition question those statements.. Yet while you accept that Enid has a track record of ‘ Anglo comments’ ie pulled from some obscure orifice, you attemtbto ridicule SF for asking those questions!!!True establishment M.O.  Castigate, ridicule the questioner rather than deal with the question. Ask Maurice Mc Cabe how that developes!!
They’re all pretty laughable. Of every political hue.
It seems reasonable to at least plan for the event and calculate the costs of it. To be fair, the govt have made it clear they don’t want a hard border re-established, but seems to me the only hope of that not happening now is if Westminster votes against it.In fact, as the leader of SF, it is Gerry that is best placed to influence the event in the near future. Assuming SF take their seats.
And the EU may well get involved – as borders (real/hard) are mandatory between member states and others.
@Alanine Pipeline: I think the EU is already very much involved. That’s why neither May nor Enda Kenny are in a position to say what will happen with the border. It will be part of negotiations but in the end it’s not their decision. If/when the UK leaves, the NI border will be an EU external border and the EU ultimately has a say in how such external borders must be controlled.
if they implement the hard border we may be able to join Schengen at least.
@justanothertaxpayer: I think Schengen is still suspended at many borders. Irish people have largely not quite caught up with how rapidly Europe has changed in the past two years.“Current Temporarily Reintroduced Border ControlsTemporarily reintroduced border controls in the context of foreseeable events:France (13 November 2015 – 26 January 2017)COP 21, the emergency state as introduced on the French territory further to the terrorist attacks in Paris, Euro 2016, Tour de France, the emergency state as prolonged on 21 July 2016 further to the terrorist attack in Nice).France (27 January 2017 – 15 July 2017)persistent terrorist threatMalta (21 January 2017 – 9 February 2017)Malta Informal Summit and Joint Valetta Action Plan MeetingTemporarily reintroduced border controls in the context of Recommendation of the Council of 7 February 2017:Germany (11 February 2017-11 May 2017)land border with AustriaAustria (11 February 2017-11 May 2017)land border with Slovenia and with HungaryDenmark (11 February 2017-11 May 2017)Danish ports with ferry connections to Germany and the Danish-German land borderSweden (11 February 2017-11 May 2017)Swedish harbours in the Police Region South and West and the Öresund bridgeNorway (11 February 2017-11 May 2017)Norwegian ports with ferry connections to Denmark, Germany and Swedenhttps://ec.europa.eu/home-affairs/what-we-do/policies/borders-and-visas/schengen/reintroduction-border-control_en
Back to the days of the North been isolated im afraid, I wont be going through checks to visit a part of an Island I habe every right like all of us to visit freely and are entitled ro as Irish citizens.
There has to be a hard border – anyone who thinks otherwise is a fool. People could just come to Ireland & drive up north without a hard border. Then they’re in the UK. There’s no other solution.
@Jason Maguire: Customs checks from the North of Ireland to the actual UK would be easier, cheaper and better for all!
@Oroku Saki: Northern Ireland is the UK.
Anyone else believing anything out of Kenny’s mouth?
Customs checks from the North of Ireland to the actual UK would be easier, cheaper and better for all!
“The government urgently needs to clarify these contradictory positions” – Gerry spoofing again.To want one thing and also prepare for it not to come about is not a contradiction. To anyone who is considering voting for this idiot, please bear in mind that he thinks planning for multiple potential outcomes is an issue.
@Richard: Dick when has that spluttering, mumbling, moron Edna the liar ever planned for anything.
The answer is to give all  EU nationals that are being allowed remain in the UK an ID card similar to our PPS card.This will give them access to UK Benefits Etc. Only issue it to people that have worked for say 5 years Then you can dump the freeloaders No need for hard border then.
Lads can’t you just vote for unification and split from UK? It’s about time.. ⌛
Kenny & May will have no say in this.
@Tony Hartigan: Be the EU all the way, as usual?
Considering the number of “good Republicans” involved in fuel laundering it’s hardly surprising Provisional SF are concerned
We have little in common with mainland Europe we are a migrant dumping ground for themAnd wil be expected to take the uk vitas of migrants when they leave we need to go also
And what would you do gerry? Give us a hint.
The fact that Varadkar, a politician who epitomizes style over substance, doesn’t receive negative press from the Irish media is not coincidental.
@Beachmaster: Leo has all the answers to the questions he was never asked.
Leo is a bit like Obama without WMDs.
@Beachmaster: Its OK he’s a member Of The LBGTPKBNHYOPQSE community. Everything he does is golden for the libtards.
It’s irrelevant to the majority who leads FG. They party will continue to viciously protect the interests of the minority capitalist class at the expense of the majority working class as it has done since the foundation of the state. (Ditto for FF).And should Fitzgerald not be forced to resign also? As she was caught lying to the Dail last week while trying to prevent the Tusla smear on Maurice McCabe being included in the terms of reference of the enquiry.
@ beachmaster Yep the gay mafia are protecting him by supressing negative media coverage lol
@Beachmaster: Sorry but are you making a stereotype over his sexuality??  Check your white heterosexual male privilege
Leo the darling of the media watch the easy ride he gets who by the way has failed in every job he has been giving but who cares as long as he leaks the odd story to the media two years before the same sex vote he was against it then when he seen it was going to pass he jump on the bandwagon and the media made him the champion and not one person question him about this
@David Clarke: who cares who is head of ff or fg they have both given the electorate the two fingers how many times at this stage?
Don’t think it matters who takes over.. what’s happened to MC cabe and other whistleblowers happened under their watch.. it’s in their own words hypocrisy to be showing all empathy now and outrage… Has some one not told Leo he was once minister for health ,. In fact wasn’t he minister for health in the last dail .. in charge of HSE .. who only yesterday were caught lying at the weekend… People don’t forget Leo varadaker was minister for health…..
What happened to fg since last night.. Accusing others in the dail of playing political football with Maurice MC cabe and now they are doing the exact same thing by staging leadership heave..By using this scandal as the catalyst…    Media last night more focused about what Leo was going to say and not say…  Talk about using a situation like this for personal glory…
The fact that a moron like Edna has led them for so long says all you need to know about f.g.
@joe o hare: If only FF and FG had the courage and decency to at least put pressure on Noirin O’ Sullivan to stand aside they might have received some respect from the public for doing so but I think the fact that they are still backing her is what people are most annoyed about. People now are going to continue to have no faith in the Gardai, not as long as she is head of the organisation. Missed opportunity to do the right thing by the conniving leeches that are FF and FG.
@watersedge: well said Watersedge…the world really needed to see that the govt were serious about sorting this scandal and if o sullivans head was what was needed then thats what should have been done…God forbid if she was totally innocent  its still not a huge price to pay to regain the trust of the police service
@Paul Gurney: The government should have drawn a line between themselves and An Garda Siochana. They should have demanded that she step aside without prejudice. To me it appears that they are all intertwined. What are they afraid of? If Noirin goes that she will take them down with her? They should, as a nod of respect to Maurice McCabe back him after all he has been through. Now it just looks like they have been forced because of public outrage, to hold a public enquiry and that their loyalties don’t really belong to him but to Noirin.
They want to leave him in place to do the seemingly dirty deed of meeting Trump leaving the new leader with clean hands. It’s like sacking your janitor before he pulls that massive turd that’s blocking the toilet in cubical 3.
@David Mac Shite: It is FF that are leaving him in place.Martin’s job is getting more easy every day that Kenny stays as leader.
The problem is that FG is devoid of a moral character. Will any leader to follow be more principledcthan Kenny? I doubt it.FG has a lot of questions to answer in how it permitted the campaign of attack on Sergeant McCabe continue.Healt, Housing, Justice, Taxation, Community supports are all in crisis and FG has worsened each and all of these crises, not improved them.
Doesn’t matter. FG are brown bread come the next election
Heard that at the last election
Despite falling into a minority government I wouldn’t call the last election a big success for FG.
@The End Is High: Until the next election after that, it’s like ping pong – FF goes down, FG raises, FG goes down, FF raises and what actually changes?  Nothing.
Hopefully but who realistically do you expect to replace them? All the parties are the same.
Two cheeks of the same arse
FG had plenty of time to get rid of the incompetent Kenny but decided to leave him be when clearly he wasn’t up to the job, I think we can expect another backlash for FG come election time.
Winning by 5 votes in a no confedense vote in cobbled together government isn’t a mandate to run a country full of deceit
@Gerard Heery: i agree but what can you say about a party like FF who decided to offer no opinion on this Government  ?
Just can’t believe they are still in power, FF just shafted use again and so did the independents
Here’s my problem, Enda steps down with Taoiseach pension and off he goes into the background.  They then elect another Taoiseach  so by end of this government term we will have had two Taoiseachs with two pensions.Will a new Taoiseach change anything?  Probably not.Even an election wouldn’t change anything other than probably put FF in there instead of FG.  Same problem different name.
@Jim Buckley Barrett: Like Bertie and Brian Cowan.
@Jim Buckley Barrett: Taoiseach, tánaiste, ministers, the attorney general and ceann comhairle all get the same pension. If Leo gets the job, there is no pension increase.
Anyone but Leo.
Paul Hogan had a character on his ’80s show called Leo W@nker.
It was quite comical last night to see kenny needing the old enemy to save his neck while his own people were busy sharpening their knives. Oh how the mediocre have fallen.
Is Gorry getting ready to nuzzle up on Michael Martin’s lap?He’ll be an adorable little pet.
Diarmuid. Gerry will still be the leader of the largest party on this island. While Enda will be consigned to the boneyard.
SF are competing with PBP for the title of largest all-ireland party. Quite the victory there ray. In the real world SF got 13.8% of the popular vote. Another staggering boast. lol!
Charlie Wrex. SF. Are here for the long haul time will tell.
Bit like Edna with Angela then Diarmuid huh?
Our Dail elected have sunk to a new low..It seems incredible but yes, yet again our Dail elected of Endapendents and Fianna Fail are reaching toward a new low in Irish history. Each of their individual names will be forever remembered in Ireland’s modern history for the part they are about to play..Many voted to prop up a sicking Fine Gael government. All incredible propped up yet again, a storytelling, lying country leader who has been caught out lying on a complete national scale. The latter comes as no surprise to the wise as he has been previously been lying on an international level too – such as to the Greek leaders and Ireland’s tax affairs while in austerity. This is in between such fairy tales like “man with two pints”, “soldiers at bank machines” and “needles falling out of bags” – all stories he’s invented..By Fianna Fail very own words, they admit the government day to day operation of running the state has been at best shambolic and a disaster – at worst, we, the people, its citizens are being lead in a disgusting costly dance while fools run the state and continue lying..Despite all this, Fianna Fail and Endapendents are absolutely stupidly and incredibility played their part within the Dail, to save the backside of a man that is nothing less than a complete and utter unfunny joke. They are going to save once again his back-stabbing, financial robbing, resource giving away, people personal data stealing, bullying thug government..As each decided to do what they did, save both the man and his disgraceful national party – one only wanted by 25% of the 65% that voted in the last election – each and every one of them will have earned themselves a place in the horror annals of our nations history..They voted to prop up Fine Gael and Co because they are thinking also of themselves first – the PR excuse: “…no appetite to pull out of government”. They are each seriously financial strained so in order to recuperate money, they are willing to let the nation further suffer and be dictated to yet again by an exposed lying bunch of bullying thugs in government..Hang your heads with shame Fianna Fail. Hand your heads with shame Endapendents. Those of you who played a further disgusting part in the propping up of Fine Gael. WILL be remembered and we, the people of Ireland that you should be putting first above your own interests, WILL NOT FORGET your actions.
@Unitedpeople: I’m sorry, but however bad this government is, they cannot be compared to the last Fianna Fail government. It’s that lack of memory that is going to get those scoundrels elected again.
@James Xenophon:Lets look at the number of mishandled crisis then under Fine Gael (and we absolute deplore FF who are indeed just as bad). Why in gods name should any fool prop up others that are involved in the following?FG Minister Donaghue says this is Fine Gael doing its best (Wed 15/02/2011 – the Dail – 20.25pm)..McCabe crisisWater charges crisisBin charges crisisCorporate tax crisisEnda continous fairy tale crisisEmail crisisHousing crisisRental crisisDebt crisisNational hospital cost crisesNAMA crisis.Vulture Fund crisisPolicing crisisHealth crisisTrolly crisisDodgy charities crisisTransport crisisTusla crisisWhistleblower crisisDrugs crisisHomelessness crisisImmigrant crisisInsurance crisisEnvironmental crisisFlooding crisisRural emptying crisisRural broadband crisisFianna Fail is rotten and corrupt – two sides of the same terrible coin as Fine Gael.Fine Gael however have done more screw-up and far more bullying, in much less time.Neither deserve to be in government.
@Unitedpeople:Add to the above, they giving away everyone’s personal information to Seetec and more, private imported companies – as they see to privatise more of the state services quietly.
Must be crisis crises management?
Kenny always was the accidental Taoiseach if it wasn’t for the economic crash and FF making a mess of the situation he would never have been in the office .Unfortunately the citizens have had to suffer his incompetence & cronyism . A man that struggles to put together a coherent sentence should never be in that position . Failing healthcare ,education ,justice ,transport the list goes on . Some legacy .
Mickmc no he didn’t and it has been proved that the goverment had f.ck all to do with the so called recovery
Agree with many of the comments. The problem is, do I believe any of the other wafflers will improve things? No. And Leo the waffler as Taoiseach? Urghhhhh!
How much will this white elephant inquiry by Ross and co cost us,That money would be better spent in Bus Éireann or health.
Take you pick ,who would you believe or trust
Even the staunchest FG supporter must recognise the party would be better off without Kenny. Do it lads.
Being eaten from inside out…Will not be missed…But do people think FG will change under new (unt…
People want FG out (so do I), nobody wants FF in (me included) but nobody on this fine forum or on broadcast media have been able to offer an alternative that could form a stable government.
@Soupy Norman: ill go with unstable but honest at this stage!
@ciaran: That actually has a good ring to it.Mick Wallace for Taoiseach! (not actually joking)
We can’t see the alternative until we see a centre grouping of politicians. Independents were making progress, but utterly imploded by propping up the legacy parties for cash/psuedo-power, and of course the great ginger hope Donnelly actually joining the worst offenders. I still have no other choice but to look to other independents, as the others are either anti-people (AAA/PbP/other far left), and sinn Fein still have their “Gerry/Martin” problem which I’d preventing them from being even a protest alternative. The best option would be if every ballot sheet had a random non aligned, non criminal person from the constituency… yep, that’s probably who I’d vote for. Sad state of affairs.
Two cats fighting would do a better job than the corrupt simpletons we have at the moment.
This country needs a Fidel Castro type leader for about 3 years to straighten things out if only to knock some sense into our self serving politicians.then we can elect a government who will put the NATIONAL interest first.
Call Donald. He’ll sort out the mess. Duck or Trump, it doesn’t matter.
I never really liked the man but it has to be said he took over when the country was on his knees and he dragged the economy back to a strong position. Back in 2011 when he gave that speech in college green he was regarded as a god after 14 years of FF. What he had to do was never going to be popular but it had to be done for the greater good.
@mickmc: he will go down in history as thee stupidest most gutless leader this country has ever had. He had the luck of   being in government when the world economy was improving.
@mickmc: A God? Ah here clean that brown tongue of yours.
@mickmc: I can see where you might think that but between ff/fg they crucified a couple of generations for what? phil Hogans plum job?their hard decisions where to attack the least well able to defend themselves and impose a fire sale of assets, where did it leave the country?recovery? look at the state of the nation under ff/fg and ask hows the recovery going for the vast majoritythe spin makes me want to punch them in the face
Mickmc; read 2 articles down 1/3 of people are struggling to keep a roof over their heads every month. With unemployment supposedly running at 8% that is 25% employed people struggling to pay for the basic right of a home.What recovery?????
@MicmacHe didn’t drag the country anywhere. The Troika told Noonan what to do and he did exactly what FF did before him as there was no choice. He has however dragged the economy back to where it was before the crash with regard to inflated house prices and high rents.
@M browe. Well that means 2/3 are not struggling to pay keep their heads above water as you put it. I dare say that statistic would have being reversed in 2011. I have little sympathy for anyone that over stretched themselves during the boom time and now are struggling. The dogs on the street could tell you the boom was never going to last but a small minority of grown adults continued on regardless.
Edna’s position is Untenable!
But Varadker has a mandate!
Darth Varadker
When Kenny finally retires do FG have another teacher (sorry politician) to take over the Kenny family seat?
@Kieran W: Micheal Martin as you would think?
FF and FG and all their politicians should be scrapped, the majority of them are totally inept, just one disaster after another with them and first to give themselves pay rises, because they think they’re entitled to them!
I think Leo is great and anyone who doesn’t is a homophobic bigot
@Emma O’Neill: you are too smart for this crowd.
Amazing how they turn on one another like rats in the Asgard 2 on September 11 (2008). Or any other sinking ship of state.  All just entertainment I suppose. I mean if we didn’t laugh we’d have to scream.
Edit: (2008)
Journal doesn’t seem to want to print the date two thousand and eight.
@John O’Driscoll: Sorry must have been an iPad problem see it on the PC anyway forget it just always think the date of the Asgard’s scuttl…sinking was proof karma is elegant and has a sense of humour.  17 days after that we were sold out by our leaders and banksters to the tune of 200 billion and it was definitively established that Ireland long a nation be a PRovinCe once again..
I’m so sick of all of this – this country is full of fools – as a people we are so gullible quite blind ……….etc etc etcKenny Veradker Noonan Martin Mary Lou Adams etc etc don’t care about u, Mc Cabe , Kids with scoliosis, waiting lists, whistleblowers or anything else in fact they see u as a hinderance that has to be kept quite in some way – they are there for the money pension notorietyAnd to show u why they don’t care and there are lots of examples- here it isIn most other countries the government should have fallen this week- so why didn’t it- well- nobody in power wants an election- whyWell they would be out of a job- some haven’t enough time for the pensionFG- know they will get a spanking in nxt election won’t be big enough for governmentFF – will be biggest party – but not big enough to govern alone and can’t go back with FGSF- will keep a few seats but nobody wants them as government partnersIndp- have been now found out to be toothless and useless and some may get back in on the back of vote for the local lad theoryLab/Greens/etc- not big enough and to diverse and to unpredictable to try appease in governmentSo politicians don’t care about u or the country it’s just try get to the 2 yearsScary thing- who do u vote for to govern – any of the above – will anything change if u do
@The Red Devil: The government loves you.
Diarmuids poster boy taken down. Just like Arlene Biggot Foster. Well done SF, enforcing accountability through politics! (If even indirectly)
Enda always said that he wouldn’t contest another election, so now perhaps is the time to depart while he still has a little credibility.
@Chris Kirk:You mean he actually has some left?
The Mad Hatters Tea Party?
If you live in a constituency where Michael Fitzmaurice,   Cathrine Murphy Clare Daly  or Roisin Shorthall are running as a candidate go out and vote for them No 1 and do not give a preference.   If you live elsewhere do not vote, stay at home.   Don’t be fooled by Fianna Fail or the Shinners  the other lefties.If you do, you will own the government which follows.  You will own the persecution of decent Gardai and other public servants.    If you do you are a criminal just like the politicians you will elect.
Well done FF. Bunch of self serving parasites.
@Andrew Corcoran:FF are like the proverbial boxer who has his opponent on the ropes and keeps holding him up just so as he can hit him some more. It wouldn’t be allowed in a boxing match but they have more integrity in boxing.
They’re doing f all hitting, John.
If they pulled the government down I’m sure you’d be labeling them parasites regardless for causing a general election at a time when they’re comfortably leading the polls.
@John: when is a liar not a liar ??? answers on a postcard toEnda Kennyc/o Dáil Éireann
Sinn Fein should be ashamed yet again for trying to play McCabe as a political football after all he has been through.All they tried to do was score political points and attempt to bring the government down like they did up north and cause a crisis in the country with political turmoil. The last thing we need right now with Brexit is uncertainty in our own political system . I can see why FF and Independent alliance saw sense .
@Greg KellyI’m glad we have ‘New Politics’ now because it seems sooo much better than the old kind !!!!:
@greg Kelly,no mention of mairia chill or Austin stack being used as political footballs by FF and FG
Greg Kelly. What about FG. With Maria Cahill and FF. With austin stack.
@Greg Kelly: by leaving Commissioner O’Sullivan in place and circling the wagons around her, FG continues to enable AGS senior ranks escape accountability for their malicious and unlawful vilification of Sergeant McCabe.
@Greg Kelly:  should send that memo around the world because it’s been picked up and it doesn’t make for pleasant reading..  wonder whose looking bad now .. Kenny or trump.. that’s right it’s  this government and Kenny… New York times…https://www.google.ie/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/15/world/europe/enda-kenny-ireland-scandal-maurice-mccabe-police.html&ved=0ahUKEwj54PDYn5PSAhUsD8AKHS0-DBMQqUMIHjAB&usg=AFQjCNHruirvBmTNIlvU9QRSAHHm-D-s_A&sig2=sToNcsHTKM2XfXmqYwG6kw
@Greg Kelly: so greg explain to us after eight diff esquires why sergeant McCabe who was exonerated on everyone them never got justice,8yrs have passed,,is that s/f fault,,did s/f instruct enda kenny to lie through his teeth in parliament and in the process totally undermine another minister
Teddy, surprisingly not tonight but we did have Harris disgustingly bring up the death of Detective Gerry Mc Cabe while trying to political point score…but that seems to be fair game with FG.
*Jerry.
So FF And FG are now echoing the DUP stance in regard to the dissolving the northern assembly. So sectarian bigotry, community hall grants directed to one community. Shared/ integrated education intolerance, turning down school grants but returning £47million unspent to British treasury. Racism. Lack of Irish language Act and stooping grants. Corruption/ total incompetence with RHI scheme and £7million from NAMA deal. Homophobia, lack of LBGT rights and marriage, ban on blood donors. Arrogance, inequality and rejection of international agreements.Thats why Assembly was dissolved but seems ok for FF and FG who are internationally and legally signed up to protect the IRISH citizens of that statelet.
@Shane O’ Malley: SF will have to wait, sickened by their hypocrisy and trying to use a Garda for their own political gain. I hate FG/FF/L too, but  SF are sewer rats and would stoop to any level to be popular like Trump!
How does the cowardly murder of Detective Jerry McCabe justify the hounding of Sergeant Maurice MCabe?How does one dreadful evil justify another evil?
Exactly Tony. It’s awful what Sinn Fein are doing to McCabe after all he has been through using him as a political pawn
Time for Ireland to make a major change.. We have to ask is Enda the best way forward with Donald in power its the time to put Irish interest forward and not lose the opportunity.
Emeralds. SF. Will murder gardai when it suits them. If I was a member of SF. I would have you up in court for that statement.
Actually Greg, with Brexit and Trump, we need political uncertainty more than ever. Our representatives are an old guard, bound in their own ways of doing things and unresponsive to change. They are entirely unsuited to the political upheaval we see growing as they don’t know how to respond.
@ray.farrelly:Did a Garda murderer get a standing ovation at a SF Ard Fheis?Did a siting TD collect a Garda murderer from prison?Did that same TD refuse to condemn the Garda murderer?You could try to take Emeralds to court for his/her comments, but like another “good republican”, you’d lose.
Due to assembly size reductions down from 108 to 90, Sinn Fein will lose several sitting MLAs by standing up against this deplorable actions by DUP.How many FF or FG sitting TDs would willing dissolve a Dail knowing that their constituancies were about to lose a TD each.That is what is needed, a party and politicians who will sacrifice their positions willingly for the greater good of their electorate.This is what FF anf FG ridicule because it is such an alien concept to the gouger class that they are!!!
I’m sorry Greg, are you defending the smear campaign of Sgt. McCabe? Your deflection would make it appear so
@Greg Kelly: didn’t Maurice Mc cabe go and meet with SF.. didn’t he show them the files . Tusla files.? Did he meet anyone from fg I wonder…  So your saying MC cabe asked sf to use him as political football and ignore what he showed them.  Because your basically saying they should be quiet on the issue..
Brinster. He has accused a political party to murder gardai when it suits them. Do you care to make the same accusation.
@LITTLEONE:Maurice McCabe met with representatives from each party before he met with SF. That’s just the plain fact. He was meeting with Claire Daly and Mick Wallace for years. Brendan Howlin of Labour. Several FF and FG. Independents. Last and least, a courtesy call to SF.The Gov inaction, dithering and dishonesty in this case was shameful.FF spineless stance tonight an embarrassment.Labour’s 180 degree turn on this issue laughable.SFs exploitation of this cynical and hypocritical.It is the single most depressing episode of Irish politics in my lifetime.Not a single one of them has emerged with any credit.
@Brinster: I am well aware of that but the point is he met with them.. he spoke with them and he showed them the files.. are people actually suggesting SF should be silent on this issue and ignore what he told them because isn’t that why we are here today.? People trying to silence others from speaking out even if don’t agree it like that person
Brinster doesn’t it say something that he didn’t meet fg the government party.. what that say????
@LITTLEONE: If you expect me to defend FG or Gov on this, you’ll be waiting a long time. Utter disgrace. Doesn’t make FF any less cowardly, Labour any less of a joke and SF any less hypocritical.I’m beginning to come round to the view that wanting to be a politician should be grounds for banning you from politics.Struggling to think of a politician over 50 whom I respect.
Brinster – Sen Maclochlainn met with Sergeant McCabe previously to this episode of the continuing affair- you assert that Sergeant McCabe paid a courtesy call – you are misinformed in this discussion
@Andrew Corcoran: As Ireland weeps and the Irish Saints fear the worst hummm…
Sure they can’t be having their Easter hols all fecked up with an election
GReg this government is an absolute shambles and is the worst in history! How can anyone have confidence in it it’s sickening
@Shane answers also on a postcard to gerry Adams !
What a corrupt little country we live in. Anyone who votes FF FG need their head tested.
Well done to FF in keeping the status quo of shame in order for self service… Despicable.. Your timing now Mehole has to be a time when again the forgetful Irish forget again… God help us..
What would an election accomplish? 6 months of political turmoil as the parties again wouldn’t be able to form a government as no one would be able to form a government, at the same time the mcabbe inquiry would collapse and nothing would be done on housing , health etc. an election is the last thing the country needs.
Tell me what this farce of an arrangement has achieved,FG having to ask permission from FF and independents before it can make any decisions.Have the election and wipe out these self serving parochial independents once and for all.Better to have a strong one party government than this joke we now have.
@Jude Perry: Nothing whatsoever on the issues you mentions.  The last country is more corruption,  clear them all out of The Dail and start again with honest people, if that is possible.
Who instructed Commissioners Callinan and OO’Sullivan to target Sergeant McCabe?
I wonder when the Journal will read their own articles and realise there is a forthcoming investigation and it’s time to close the comments
@alphanautica: why? there has been no criminal investigation called or any appetite for one it seemsKenny is officially gone and that is not the end of it, too little too late
@alphanautica: there is no criminal investigation, no criminal prosecution, no legal proceedings and no prejudice.  Why try to shut down the asking of a question?  Is there something to hide, interests to be protected, powerful people to be looked after?
Fianna fail rounding on Sinn Fein for having the nerve to not let the DUP away with their corruption up north.
Tearing down things is all SF/PIRA has ever been good at.Its faux-concern over the welfare of Gardaí is  not just grossly hypocritical, it is disgusting.
@Eamonn: how do you think bombers and murderers should be treated?
Fianna Fail were from the early Sinn Féin. They took prisoners out of prison and executed them. Your a gross hypocrite monkey man
FF and FG should just amalgamate and be done with it.
@watersedge: they did. Didn’t you hear Martin refer  to ff as fg tonight. They can’t even tell themselves now.
Two cheeks of the same treacherous self serving arse Fine Gael and Fianna Fail.Keeping the recovery going for the corrupt and greedy.
@Paul Mc:  And the IA are the little brown hole between the cheeks. had they done what the people wanted, as the poll indicated yesterday, and voted no confidence, they would have gained huge credit, and we would have the chance to get rid of a lot of these corrupt parasites.
Kenny slithers away to scurry around another day. Poor old Mehole running scared of SF rising in the polls but refuse to end the charade that is this government. It’s got zero to do with anything the people want…it’s purely to suit their own means.
I would like to say the Irish people will punish them next time they get a chance, but who am I kidding… Enda could punch a granny in the face and the sheep would still vote him and his party in.
Politics is both corrupt and dysfunctional.
That’s an extraordinary stereotype. How could we encourage our educated young people ever want to enter politics with language and stereotypes like that.
@Jude Perry: educated young people need to develop independent critical faculties so that they can recognise political evil,and then take the steps to bring about reform.
Jude, I fear for our youth if this is the shambles and incompetence that they have to put with up with our government.
Fianna Fáil, instead of using their time to speak about the disgusting smear campaign against Sgt. Maurice McCabe, have turned it into an atttack on Sinn Féin, and also have questioned the need to pull down the assembly in the North.In typical Fianna Fáil fashion they’ll see that this “incompetent Government”, in those words, still stands tomorrow morning. So they’re incompetent but Micheál Martin still has confidence in it? Double speakMuch like his take on the North, he doesn’t see allegations of corruption, a lack of integrity, and an extreme display of arrogance, as sufficient reason to withdraw his support as Deputy First Minister.What a farce this is, and Fianna Fáils position on it all speaks volumes about their willingness to move on from their brown envelope, nod and a wink past.
Money.
@Jude Perry:Politics is like prostitution, it’s been around forever and you know someone has to do it but you wouldn’t want one of your children involved with it.
@Tony Daly: It is a magic bubble that they live in?
Quite close.Whatever about Fianna Fail who are in effect part of government the Independents should be ashamed of themselves for letting the citizens of this country down.
@Emmet O’Keeffe – absolutely! Everyone needs to take note of who supported Enda and Co and let them know how disgusted we are with their complete and utter contempt for the truth. They need to hear our voices loud and clear.
I hear you. But I don’t think Enda’s earpiece is switched on.
Anyone else reckon FF have severely misjudged the public mood on this? Over the past week, I have not talked to a single person who stood by the omnishambles which kenny has presided over, and I don’t think the prevailing ‘ah shure he’ll be gone after the paddys day junket regardless’ is enamouring many people to the unprescidented crisis with our state institutions.Maybe the motion should have been to remove the tanaiste or a formal request for the commissioner to stand aside, who could reasonably put up a good argument against that?
@For Connolly: I think that FF will be severely damaged by this collusion with FG.
You have been saying FF ARE doomed that since the formation of this government and every poll proves you wrong. Change the record FC.
@doorhandler: a cynical move too far by FF.
No Tony. Only if your SF supporter. Vast majority of ppl do not want election. Get on with setting up the tribunal and preparing for Brexit and the next budget. That’s what people want.
@doorhandler: it is about the fundamental lack of integrity of FG and the collaboration by FF in enabling FG to remain in office.Commissioner O’Sullivan remains in office.
Spot on doorhandler. The public have note important things as their priority right now and an election is not what anybody wants except the shinners who couldn’t guve a fkcu about our country right now
@FC…completely agree. FF will haemorrhage votes after this. And rightly so.
Greg kelly. Speak for yourself.
” every poll” except the one that matters!!!!
M Bowe. There will be plenty of time for an election and after the next election SF will be leading the protests while FG and FF will continue to run the country.
What a shower of cowards
Again how would an election actually benefit the country, no party would get an overall majority and there’d be more political limbo with nothing being done about the present crisis.
There is more than one crisis and there will be even more the longer FF and FG cling on .
Oh the irony of voting full confidence in themselves and ff going on about stability while newspapers reporting a coup in fg… Where’s the stability now or confidence now?
Feckin weak backs…..I blame the electorate for voting in these corrupt idiots.
Jo Mullins…it’s called democracy and this is the government through the constitution that we the people voted for so we must accept it.
The people rejected FG going by the amount of seats lost yet still somehow we were stuck with them because they didn’t get enough votes for a majority government and fell into a minority one.
But they still got the most votes and hence formed a government
Formed by default.
And did get enough votes to form a government
A minority one by default, yes.
@winston smith…this isn’t democracy. It’s corruption, collusion and lies at the highest level of our government. While we might be witnessing the very worst of ‘democracy’ there are no rules or laws that say we have to accept it. Besides, a FG minority government propped up by FF is in effect a FG/FF coalition. I don’t remember being asked to vote for that. Where are the manifestos prior to the election that specified that? There aren’t any because both parties continue with the pretence that they’re different. While all the time, in back rooms they are gloating and rubbing their hands in glee at fooling us all. FF and FG are one and the same and both are guilty of malfeasance of the highest order. They disgust me.
@winston smith: This government was never voted for. This has everything to do with anti democratic dictatorship of the elite.
Spineless FF…
FG FF two sides of the same coin. Traitors, nothing less. Disgaceful, do they not realize the world is way hung and reporting on this. Makes me sick
FF FG 2 sides of the same coin. Makes me sick to my stomach, do these fools not realise the world’s media are watching this.
@Shane Molloy: even the media in states have picked it up.  The irony of them mocking trump .https://t.co/06oKLIPVu7
Link doesn’t open for me
@Shane Molloy:. opening fine for me..  it’s the new York times…https://www.google.ie/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/15/world/europe/enda-kenny-ireland-scandal-maurice-mccabe-police.html&ved=0ahUKEwj54PDYn5PSAhUsD8AKHS0-DBMQqUMIHjAB&usg=AFQjCNHruirvBmTNIlvU9QRSAHHm-D-s_A&sig2=sToNcsHTKM2XfXmqYwG6kw
Interesting Littleone ,especially with where’s Wally heading over for Patricks day with a bowl of weeds to present to that man who his Finance minister rolled out the red carpet and bent over and sold the country for a bag of beans to!
Thanks LITTLE ONE
Roll on the election..lets see if he has the”confidence” of the  people…
If we keep voting in liars and kerry gombeens into government then we can only blame ourselves
Shame of FF and the independents,Shame shame shame.
If I was Kenny I wouldn’t be making reference to the dissolving of the northern assembly,as he is the Irish equivalent of Arlene Foster.2 liars.
It was a no go from the start, Michael Martin had the chance to pull the plug & he couldn’t even do it. He was scared to call an election for fear of loosing seats or coming back to FG with his begging bowel.Kenny will have his way & swan off to meet Trump & he’ll return & get his marching orders Easter Week & he’ll be nailed to the Dial doors on Good Friday.So watch out Michael Martin, Leo Varadkar as the new Taoiseach won’t be such a roll over, I’d nearly bet FF will want to pull down the Government when  Mr Varadkar takes over the reins!
The Tribunal of Inquiry when established will be undermined by the fact that Commissioner O’Sullivan remains in office and will stand in the way.
O’Sullivan needs to go/step aside/have a holiday whatever! As long as she’s in place any tribunal or investigation is compromised.
@Em Ni Mhurchu: Ditto Zappone.
Certified hackerd. Do you work for any of the following. FG/FF/IW. By any chance??
Kenny, he slipped through the net again, I blame FF & Michaela Martin for playing the numbers game. It could all blow up in his face when Kenny hands over leadership to Leo Varadkar TD!
These people couldn’t care less about the country or Maurice McCabe and his family. Had this happened in the UK you would have had immediate resignations but our politicians are only interested in self preservation. If FF were ready for an election ,have no doubt they would have pulled the plug and Kennys only interest is some date in March when he will become the longest serving FG Taoiseach. I have no doubt every one of them knew what was going on and what was being said about Sgt. McCabe. How many politicians have come out in the last couple of days saying they were told this and that? Every single one of them should be so ashamed of themselves.
The last thing Ireland needs is this arse hole in charge, FF have shown themselves to be cynical without a thought for the electorate who hopefully will remember their  treachery.
@Gus Sheridan:http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/766811/Eurozone-crisis-Greece-ditch-euro-US-dollar-Trump-Ted-Malloch
So what would the alternative government be? Gerry, I was never in the IRA Sein Fein?
Eh, SF provided they ditch Gerry are the only ones with the competency to actually lead right now.. do u defend hypocrite Kenny who obvs stands over the smear against an innocent man ? How can anyone accept ff fg after this that isn’t corrupt themselves ?
Or we can stick Enda with the fúck with the old boys club and we will annihilate you.
Party hacks and sheep can, Sean.
Sean…whatever about Kenny’s bouts of incompetency or forgetfulness I don’t believe he or anyone in government would stand over this smear campaign. Sein Fein would readily hop into bed and play the same politics  FF/FG tomorrow if they could.
@winston smith: Forgetfulness? Lies could be another word used instead.
He’s a liar,and the immoral property tax on a family home was a blatant spoof.
Bouts of incompetent indeed. He had no mandate last year ,what do u call it now but spinless standing over this.heads would be rolling in UK
@winston smith: Wrong..
Mc cabe is playing a blinder,drip feeding information, i cant wait till he drops the bomb on bell enda and proves he’s been part of this smear campaign from the outset
Forget about “alternate facts” Fine Gael are living in an “alternate reality”. Fine Gael are great for turning the accused into victims.“Public Expenditure Minister Paschal Donohoe attacked the opposition over Tuesday’s debate in the Dáil.He claimed Taoiseach Enda Kenny, Tánaiste Frances Fitzgerald, Children’s Minister Katherine Zappone and Health Minister Simon Harris were treated badly by opposing TDs.”
Wasting time with waffle. If he wants to give his colleagues a pat on the back, they have the Dáil bar. That’s not attacking the opposition. There are far more vulnerable people in this country being treated badly by their own government.
@Les Behan: If F.G. under Enda could survive all the bull of his first government, then he can survive anything except Merkel loosing her election and LePen winning hers???
Let’s leave it be and aim to get justice for those afflicted.
Justice would see this government collapse.
@Gavin Scott: the focus should now turn to the vindication of Sergeant McCabe and making the perpetrators against him accountable.
@Tony Daly: exactly- where is the accountability? It doesn’t seem to exist in this country…
Surely having a laugh?! Leave it be?? This country is being run by very dangerous buffoons ffs. The fact that the motion wasn’t past says all we need to know about that corrupt coalition (let’s be honest)! How can any sane person have confidence in any of them?!
CONFIDENCEˈkɒnfɪd(ə)ns/Submitnoun1.the feeling or belief that one can have faith in or rely on someone or something.“we had every confidence in the staff”synonyms:	trust, belief, faith, credence, conviction; More2.the telling of private matters or secrets with mutual trust.“someone with whom you may raise your suspicions in confidence”
This is a jucking foke. He’s like the T 2000 from terminator 2. We’ll never get rid of him.
Sinn Fein showing what immature charlatans they are with these playground antics. Leave your dodgy Northern politics up at Stormont.
@Fred Jensen: Huh?
The last thing this country wants is enda propped up by spineless ff . Let’s keep the recovery going homelessness at an all-time high hospital waiting lists at an all-time high smear campaigns at an all-time high.
Al Capone & his mobsters
5 votes not overwhelming
to me such a large number of no cuonfidece means that no one wants FG leading anymore… time they leave
All in the same bucket of shyte now ,time for marching ,a good clean out is required.
Time for a hair cut
It’s about time this man Enda freak resigned
It’s actually hilarious how many dislikes I’ve gotten on my comment above, people hate to hear an argument that actually makes sense rather than the classic words like “vermin” that seems to be in every comment on this thread
@Jude Perry: It’s called opinion, you have yours and others are entitled to have theirs.
@Jude Perry:  Jude you’re a member of the Fine Gael Youth, you have no credibility.
@Jude Perry: your photograph does you no favours by revealing your partisan position.Excessive and mindless devotion to corrupt politicians inhibits the development of critical faculties and of independent thought.
Jude, you’re sound if you’re trying to counter political apathy in young people. But you asked us to write your party propaganda for you. Try encouraging others to do the right thing. Good ideas are good ideas regardless of the source.
@Les Behan: Neither has F.G. in anything?
@Jude Perry: All beliefs made sense in the head of those who believe them, that is why people believe then?
Enda won and Pat Kenny was delighted, he even wore a blueshirt
Poor ol sf, hoist by their own petard . FF abstinence is the one thing they can’t criticise. Brings back memories of ccob’s “rat like cunning ” description of the failers in the 80′s.
FF Always looking out for the country’s best interests!
Must be sickening for the AAA-PVP ALWAYS AGAINST ASSOCIATION -PURE BULLS–T PARTY to lose out AGAIN them And sinnfein
PBP
I was on the fence about requiring an election with the sanctioning of a public inquiry but after last nights farce in the Dail it’s time that Enda and Noirin were removed immediately or else bring it to the people to decide.
Soupy it sounded yesterday like they were calming the storm and that they’d get through it but then Kenny made an arse of himself again last night and I’d say it’s over for him certainly and probably for the government. I hope so anyway.
Fair play to Enda. He is a great leader. Apparently he went a round of golf with 18 hole in ones too.
Why is that sequence of events starting on 7th Feb when we know that the Mc Cabes contacted Simon Harris’s office on 18th Jan, the call which brought Katherine Zappone and Tusla into this fray.What and who did Simon Harris discuss this with other than K Zappone????
What a shambles! And the continuing shame is that the McCabe family will not see full vindication for an age while this inquiry takes place. Not to mention the tens of millions of euros that it will cost to the taxpayer. It’s absolutely criminal. Think what that money could be better used for. I don’t want an inquiry….the information is so blatant ly obvious as to who the guilty parties are….I want an inquisition!
@gowfc@yahoo.com W: Remember you said that next time the Guards bring you in “don’t bother with a trial, he’s clearly guilty, says so here.  Off to the ‘joy with him”
Well then CeannairBlue lets have a criminal investigation by a team from outside the state follows by a trial if they deem it necessary. This could be done quickly as some said earlier, by going to the person in TUSLA who inputted the false sex allegations and finding out from them at whose request they did it. That’s the nub of this, find out that answer and the rest will fall into place.
It’s a pity the sentiment of your comment and the application of the even hand of justice was not extended to McCabe. Also, my trial would not be costing tens of millions of euro. And lastly…you equate inquiry with trial. It’s the very difference between those two, both in terms of cost and time, that I am objecting to. For a trial to happen there needs to be a reasonable case to answer. That is surely the case here.
Enda Kenny caught out lying again. It’s not really news at this stage though is it?
@Les Behan: It sure is news this time though. The barefaced lie that he’s (again) trying to pass off as a little white lie just cost hm his job.
Yes Les it is news, and every time a politician lies it should be widely reported, its something we should never get used to, or forget, and when election time comes around show the lying self serving idiots that we have had enough of it and show them the door…..
@Mr Snuffleupagus:  He won’t lose his job until Fianna Fail say so. You’ve got to laugh though, the party Fine Gael dodged questions for 5 years blaming on everything, are the same party that are going to keep them in power.I actually don’t see any good coming from this inquiry because bar Maurice McCabe, I wouldn’t believe a word out of any of their mouths. Extreme political corruption has been widespread in this country over the last 20 years and we still have no accountability.  The problem though it’s not just with the politicians and high ranking Gardai, there are so many institutions that are corrupt to their core and nobody seems to mind. I’m expect another  whitewash.
@gordon larney:  “Yes Les it is news, and every time a politician lies it should be widely reported, its something we should never get used to, or forget,”Right but it doesn’t happen. How many times have you seen The Journal here for example giving column inches to Bertie Ahern? Michael Lowery is a government minister? Michael Noonan, friend to the vulture funds, a bond holder? Simon Coveney negotiating  rent deals and him a landlord? Alan Kelly furiously pushing Irish Water while his brother was buying up water infrastructure all over the world. Where were the cries of “corruption” or ” conflict of interests” from the media?16 years of successive corrupt Fianna Fail governments, replaced by two corrupt Fine Gael governments, where is the widespread reporting? there isn’t any and that’s the problem.
Spot on Les, corruption seems to run very deep in our country, politicians, civil servants, bankers and the media, all linked together helping each other to avoid the public finding out true facts and what goes on behind their closed doors, how is the electorate so forgiving to the obvious lying and spectacular waste (and theft) of tax payers money….
@Les Behan: FG are already moving to replace him. No need for them to wait for FF. kenny’s a gone. most he has left is 3 weeks.
@Mr Snuffleupagus:  Whoopty f*ckin do. A choice between Leo  Varadkar  and Simon Coveney. Getting rid of the gobsh!te isn’t going to make any difference, did it make any difference when Shatter and Callinan were sent packing?
@Les Behan: It is not another General Election we need, it is a Revolution.   Tribunal after Tribunal,  perjury committed by some during questioning,  no one in jail after the finding’s  against establishment figure’s’ politician’s and business men  who clearly broke the law.   The winners the legal eagles, and those who were allowed to evade justice, by the establishment political classes and state apparatus.  The loser’s as  usual in Paddy land the crucified taxpayers, and future generation’s.  Nothing will change if people continue to tolerate corruption,cronyism, Nepotism, cute hoorism, and all the rest that is wrong in this sham of a Republic.   Time to drain the swamp and let us build a new Republic,  of the people, by the people, for the people, unlike the present situation where a  small minority get all the gravy and the rest get the leftovers.
The Government is snookered. I personally am delighted that something as “disgusting” as this whole debacle will bring Enda Kenny down.
He’s an amateur,zero skills as leader.The cheek of him in our Dail fumbling with his earpiece to hear what the handlers tell him to say.He has to go after all the lies and corruption under his watch.
Who’s bringing what down exactly? This will blow over in a few days. Irish water, Irish water.
Unfortunately Gavin I have to agree. It will all be forgotten about and they’ll go back to their dail bar for a few pints before deciding on more taxes to heap on us. FF have said it already, they’re backing the government. The lying slime kenny and Co are going nowhere
True. Kenny may have told some fibs. Compare this to the rest of the electorate. No different. Could be cutting off our necks to save us from a 300 foot fall.
And to think the price of shoes brought a Government down in the 80′s.. Goes to show in 2017 we put up with a lot more than we did 30 years ago..
sack the establishment now
@Bobby Phelan: Provide a list then.  Oh no you can’t as “the establishment” is just something you think sounds impressive.Vote out Kenny yes – to be replaced by who ?
@Ceannair The colour at the end of your name says a lot about your way of thinking.. All you’re missing is the word “Shirt” at the end of it..
@Ceann…pick any chimp in Dublin Zoo…
@CeannairBlue:Yes thats the attitude to adopt alright…”ah sure let the idiots stay and govern us off the cliff”Enda is from the oldest of the old guard of politics, dyed in the wool, brainwashed or whatever way you want to say it he is poisonous and that goes for a great many other politicians too. People scoffed at the likes at Daly and Wallace entering the Dail but look at what they have achieved and it’s them that deserve the credit for bringing this scandal into the public eye not Brendan Howlin.There is no leadership here, only a bag of lies designed to protect the Garda commissioner and himself, why do this when there is wrongdoing at foot, clear as day. A real leader would have come down on the commissioner like a ton of bricks…After all, they were trusted to right their shop after Callinan got the boot, they have not only failed but made things worse. So much failure, so many lies, so many lives destroyed all because of corruption sanction from the highest levels of the Guards and inaction precipitated from the highest levels of government.It’s pure sickening.
@CeannairBlue:  The Chimpanzee party from the zoo would do a better job.
Wait ’till you see the gang sitting around him… and the tone of voice he takes when he’s answering questions from SF, the one he learned when he was a school teacher. He’s such a BS artist.
And FF are set to keep this lying gimp and his party in power shame on FF
@Gerald Gallagher: They are clearly not quite ready for an election.
Let’s make them ready! Every one of us need to get out on the streets and show them we will not tolerate this anymore!
There’s no other EU country as bad. Lying politicians, paedophile clergy, corrupt bankers, inadequate health and transport services, massive immigration and drug problems etc. Yet some think we’re the finest country on earth…
And don’t forget we have the most corrupt media anywhere in the Western World.. RTE are in the Goverments pocket.. Newstalk, Today FM, The Indo and Herald etc all owned by DOB who is best mates of Enda and Co..
Yes David – and it’s not long since FF were finally rumbled and discarded. But soon to return….unBElievable …
What disturbs me most is the spectre that the Taoiseach’s ham fisted efforts at concealing his first knowledge of the serial abuse allegations point to the Taoiseach’s indirect complicity in the smear campaign.The campaign against Sergeant McCabe was facilitated by the Government.Too many people knew of the allegations to allow the Taoiseach and Minister for Justice to hide behind their own pretence of ignorance.
@Tony Daly:I tell you what, if the Garda Commissioners shredder is working overtime, so is Endas.
OK, so now we’re back to Zappone DID tell him about TUSLA prior to the cabinet meeting.He needs to go, he is now firmly part of the problem.
@For Connolly: he was part of the problem of the smear campaign against Sergeant McCabe back in Callinan’s time.
You know this how?
I’d like to see the lot of them water boarded, is what some people might say, allegedly.
This is the Enda Kenny…
if you can defend this government bigger fool you..
oh p*ss off with your red thumbs and post a defence
Ask yourself why Kenny has been telling so many lies about not knowing of the sexual abuse allegations until the Prime Time programme when the truth is that Kenny has known of these abuse allegations shortly after they were made.
Something else that needs to be looked at is how this Government has used the Garda as their own private army.  During the Water Protests. 2/3 of the people in this country were totally opposed to Irish Water which was evident from the beating FG & Labour took at the last election, yet the full resources of the Garda were used to push through water metering. Norin,  Enda and Martin before him have scratched each others backs all the way.
@Damien Aulsberry: It’s called political policing. This is the use of the Garda Siochana for political objectives.
@Tony Daly:Or Fascism Tony :)
Indo is reporting he’ll be gone AFTER a junket to Washington on Paddy’s day.  I don’t get that – why waste money sending a guy who’s on his way out the door?  Why deny the next Taoiseach, (whoever he or she might be) from establishing their policy with the Trump administration from the beginning?
What’s he wearing on his ear, does he now require a translator
@Fear Uisce: No just needs a spin doctor to tell him what to say…..
It is implausible and unbelievable that the Taoiseach and Minister for Justice did not know of the detail of the sexual abuse allegations against Sergeant McCabe is light of the widespread dissemination of these vile allegations to a large number of recipients including but not limited to Mary Lunch the Cavanagh taxi driver, John Deasy TD, John McGuiness TD and Vincent Brown.A large group of senior Garda reported these allegations to a wide variety of influential people.These allegations are touched upon in the O’Higgins Report and in the Guerin Report.The Taoiseach has known of these allegations for a long, long time going back to Callinan’s time.
If the Garda cannot investigate the McCabe case,and others,what’s the point in having the force,to keep the public down.
@@mdmak33: quis custodiet?
The fact Noirin Frances and Kenny have not already resigned is telling. Rats run the high offices of this state
As the late Albert Reynolds said “its the little things in life that trip you up”
Kim Jong kenny will you just go
If garda McCabe thinks he will get justice without a criminal envistigation running alongside more fool him
Could we not just get some known honest and impartial guards to be given special internal affairs dispensations to root out the evildoers and restore truth and justice?  And could we not just get an ordinary criminal court to do likewise?  And if not, why not?  Are there no known honest and impartial guards and courts fit for purpose?
At the end of the day and the millions and zillions wasn’t the last big subject of Tribunal investigation able to set it all to naught by saying ”I won it on a horse”?
We should organise a public mass protest soon enough, if Fianna Fail & the Independents abstains their votes to stay in government with FG tonight, then to let the parties know that we’re no longer the gullible sheep they expect us to be & show these political crooks & liars the sheer force of our anger this time!
@John Flanagan: ye’ll all be arrested and convicted of god knows what by some FG- or FF-appointed judge just as some 15 year old kid was lately by a Labour-appointed Judge for throwing a water balloon and waving his arms and being rude to Joan Burton.
Our politic tried to destroy the life of #MauriceMcCabe and his family and it seems there are many other victims of this practice, this is what can happen if you are a law abiding citizen in Ireland, today.The Minister for Justice #FrancesFitzgerald claims she wasn’t aware this was happening, yet she was Minister for Children when Tusla, the child proptection agency, fabricated a report about #MauriceMcCabe. Why isn’t she being held to account, how can she be so bad at her job and still be in it !!Brendan Howlin claims Garda Commissioner Nóirín O’Sullivan contacted journalists to make allegations of “sexual crimes” against the Garda whistleblower Sergeant Maurice McCabe.John Deasy claims he contacted Enda Kenny in 2014, informing him that a senior Garda had warned him about McCabe.Sinn Fein and Labour have sat back since 2008 and allowed all this to happen despite them knowing the finidings of the Morris Tribunal into Garda corruption costing the state €172 millions. Its obvious now we should have just burned the money, nothing changed.Fianna Fail were in government when this sorry saga started in 2008 and continued to allow #MauriceMcCabe to be bullied, harassed and vilified until 2011, they ignored his pleas for help.Now our very own John Halligan and the IA have secured an international review of Garda practice, this is purely tokenistic gesture it has to be said, it will change nothing but will cost a bomb, so whats the point of it apart from making IA look good.On top of this this we have a Tribunal, that we already know will bring back, almost the very same findings as the Morris Tribunal.I don’t think we should have a Tribunal, If we really want this to stop happening, I think there should be criminal trial for the vicious psychological assault on #MauriceMcCabe and his family, those found guilt should face criminal sanctions.I also think #MauriceMcabe should take a civil action against people like Enda Kenny, Francis Fitzgerald, Noreen O Sullivan and Gordon Jeyes (the boss of Tusla in 2014) and anyone else who may have had the authority to destroy his life. They should be personally liable and should have to pay #MauriceMcCabe for the damage they caused him, from their personal pockets not the tax payers; thats if they are found to have caused him damage.The guilty parties need to be held to account, not society at large, just the guilty parties and they should have to pay under the law, just like the rest of us. All of our TDs are and have let us down badly on this one, it could have happened to anyone of us, if we leave this go it still could
Tribunals, inquiries, commissions etc etc blah blah blah same old FG sh!te.This clown needs to go and if FF arses are still planted on the fence for the vote tomorrow then they will be openly making a mockery of the Irish political system.
Tweed, FF are never going to secede on a SF motion. If they pull out it’ll be a big press conference called by them and on their terms. SF know this too.
I was at a do in the National Concert Hall during the last GovernmentFG, FF, Labour and The Greens all propping up the ‘free’ bar having a great time like long lost palsIts all a game and we aint in it
Exactly Anton. They are all cut from the same cloth.
@jane: and there was a guy called Denis with them
Course there was. The problem this country has it that the only politicians that are actually different are the AAA and PBP lads. And they’re all a bit mad.
You’re in flying form this morning Jane . Loving the input and totally agree with you, well said.
Ah thanks Michael. What do you think? Would you like to see an election called?
The main Government parties since the foundation of the State: 1937-1948 Fianna Fáil, 1948-1951 Fine Gael, 1951-1954 Fianna Fáil, 1954-1957 Fine Gael, 1957-1973 Fianna Fáil, 1973-1977 Fine Gael, 1977-1981 Fianna Fáil, 1981-1982 Fine Gael, 1982-Nov 1982 Fianna Fáil, 1982-1987 Fine Gael, 1987-1992 Fianna Fáil, 1992-1997 Fine Gael, 1997-2002 Fianna Fáil, 2002-2007 Fianna Fáil, 2007-2011 Fianna Fáil, 2011-2016 Fine Gael, 2016-DATE Fine Gael. And we wonder what’s wrong with our country… Hmmm
Brendan to be fair to people those parties were really the only options down through the years. We do have a choice now at least. Problem is though a lot of people are genuinely nervous about the policies of the far left.
FF or FG will never be found wanting while it’s politically possible to protect bondholders, corporate tax dodgers, vulture funds and corrupt cops.
The headline says it all. FF willing to prop up a shambolic government because its suits the FF Party. Disgusting!
@jane: There is no “far left” political parties in the country, bar maybe AAA. They don’t amount to much on the political landscape at present.But we do have far right, neo-liberal globalists is about as far right as you can get. And we see exactly where that has left the country.
@jane:You mean like the politics of not giving €100+ billion to bank bondholders, opposing the decimation of our social infrastructure or condemning the red carpet that was laid out for the vulture funds while a homeless epidemic rages?
Those crazy lefties, eh?
@jane: I’d only disagree in the sense that I don’t believe we have a ‘far’ left Jane, maybe Ruth Coppinger is heading that way, tho I tend to think she’s just cranky.
@vNblxOSQ:You’d be a bit cranky too if you had to look across at the sanctimonious gobs on the blueshirts and soldiers of destiny as they facilitate the ransacking of the country while preaching from the pulpit.The AAA and PBP believe the capitalist system must go and be replaced by a radically different model based on meeting human need instead of generating profit for the few.If that makes us the “far left” then so be it.
@Dusty Mooney:Still no option to vote for. Radical Marxism is not the answer, not by a long shot.
@Pádraig Ó Raghaill:You don’t understand Marxism then.
Or maybe he does Dusty.
Here’s a link to a good summary of Marxism (scientific socialism)::“Most people believe that society is fixed for all time, and that its moral, religious and ideological values are immutable, along with what we call “human nature”. But the slightest acquaintance with history shows that this is false. History manifests itself as the rise and fall of different socio-economic systems. Like individual men and women, societies are born, develop, reach their limits, enter into decline and are then finally replaced by a new social formation.In the last analysis, the viability of a given socio-economic system is determined by its ability to develop the productive forces, since everything else depends on this. Many other factors enter into the complex equation: religion, politics, philosophy, morality, the psychology of different classes and the individual qualities of leaders. But these things do not drop from the clouds, and a careful analysis will show that they are determined—albeit in a contradictory and dialectical way—by the real historical environment, and by tendencies and processes that are independent of the will of men and women”https://www.marxist.com/karl-marx-130-years.htm
Wally the bondholders is only one aspect and one you’ll always get the popular vote on but what about the others?You’ve continually said here that someone who is running a small business and employing a few staff is a parasite if they are making a profit. They could be the best employers in the world but in your eyes there should be no benefit to the person taking the risk to start the business and all profit should go to employees. Sorry but that is lunacy.
Dave I don’t believe we have a far right in this country. When you look around Europe at the moment and the parties that are emerging there’s no way we’d elect a crowd that stand for some of the stuff coming from them. Neoliberal maybe but not far right.
I think there’s more than Ruth. Paul Murphy, Richard Boyd Barrett and a good few more are left of left.
I really would but not until the current saga of corruption and deception is sorted and they are actually held accountable. If they go tomorrow then they will wash their hands of it and go right back to “it’s your fault” and that’s . The current and last 2 governments are beyond toxic and need to be put down out of our misery.
But if they stay will they try to influence and control the enquirers from within.
@jane:It’s not lunacy. It’s the verifiable reality. Even the best employer in the world is required to exploit his workers under the capitalist model. This is not a moral judgment on the individual employer but a recognition of the fundamental nature of capitalist production.The workers always creates more in wealth for the employer than they receive in wages and this is where the capitalist employers profit derives from.In any event, small business/employers are no longer the dominant force in capitalism. The bulk of humanity’s productive capacity now rests in the hands of colossal multinational corporations which cover the globe in a deadly parasitic embrace:“In the United States, where the process may be seen in a particularly clear form, the Fortune 500 corporations accounted for 73.5 percent of total GDP output in 2010. If these 500 companies formed an independent country, it would be the world’s second largest economy, second only to the United States itself. In 2011, these 500 firms generated an all-time record of $824.5 billion in profits—a 16 percent jump from 2010. On a world scale, the 2000 biggest companies now account for $32 trillion in revenues, $2.4 trillion in profits, $138 trillion in assets and $38 trillion in market value, with profits rising an astonishing 67 percent between 2010 and 2011”https://www.marxist.com/karl-marx-130-years.htmMarx by the way predicted this concentration of capital and the development of monopoly capitalism which dominates today in the Communist Manifesto written in 1847.
From the link:“Unfortunately, there is not the slightest chance of capitalism recovering its youthful vigour. It has long ago entered its final phase: that of monopoly capitalism. The day of the small business, despite the nostalgia of the bourgeoisie, has been relegated to the past. In all countries the big monopolies, closely related to banking and enmeshed with the bourgeois state, dominate the life of society. The polarisation between the classes continues uninterrupted, and tends to accelerate.”
Works for me. If newer, non-legacy people get in, and put forward any ideas too radical, the older parties are going to tone those proposals down. So we get acceptable initiatives for once.
@Tweed Cap: F.F. is lead by Enda???
How or who in their right mind could have confidence in this government.. after yesterday’s performance where you had taoiseach remembering in such detail, a conversation he never had
littleone. If there is an election the issues will be water charges repeal the 8th the jobstown people. mccabe will be put on long finger. do you want the.truth or do you want to make political capital from this debacle?
@Patrick Gough:  that’s hilarious.. you think truth in the same breath as this government ..  are you serious…..
@LITTLEONE: any political football will do for the shinners, as if they care about mccabe
Secondly Patrick Gough.    Where was the truth for McCabe all these years under this government?  Nowhere…
@LITTLEONE: perfect karma for the shinners when this stunt falls flat on its face
@harry barry:  yet here you are fg mouthpiece making political football out of MC cabe. You have no shame.
@harry barry: bluster and waffle. Your well trained.  Sit now sit.
@harry barry: do you think little Mary Boyle deserves justice? I do. Think the cover up on that needs exposing after everything thing last few days.. don’t you agree?
A bit rich of SF to demand justice for Garda McCabe considering they were the political wing of a group that murdered members of An Garda in the line of duty
Harry it would be more electoral advantage to leave Kenny were he is. The longer he is there the more damage he does to the Blue shirts. Another few months and FG will dip below 20%. You now will have an public enquiry with a drip feed that will cause huge long-term damage to FG. You have a Superintendent saying he was instructed to slur McCabe. You have all the Paul Williams stuff. It would be in FG’S interest to get out now, the damage all this is going to cause them will be hugely destructive while they try to dump Kenny.
Brian it is ungentlemanly to remind shinnerbots of their past crimes.
Do you think the public are engaged by this sort of whataboutry?? No, people are disgusted by this government and that nonsense by Kenny yesterday only makes it worse. FG will be wiped out at the next election and the longer Kenny stays there the worse it will be.
Fair enough. But the publics focus is squarely on FG lies and all the trolling in the world on the journal won’t effect that. But sure you keep up the good fight lol!!!
@LITTLEONE:They’re all coming out of the woodwork now. Pat Rabbit has now claimed he was approached by a senior garda throwing slurs at McCabe and did absolutely nothing.FG TD John Deasy has joined the ranks of crawlers coming out today to say he too was approached by a senior Gardai making accusations against McCabe and did and said absolutely nothing about it,http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/fine-gael-td-a-senior-garda-came-to-me-with-mccabe-smears-35452622.htmlKeep coming out crawlers. Sooner or later the truth will out and you lot will be on the wrong side of it. Now that a tribunal is going to be announced today, watch them crawl out to cover their own asses. When they do crawl out. they should be stepped on and squashed.Keep coming out.
Ah come on Littleone, look at Harry Barry’s bile. It’s Diarmuid using one of its false accounts, don’t feed the troll
@Mr Snuffleupagus: unbelievable what’s coming out and shameful.. but it’s obvious neither fg or ff really care .  They all knew and did nothing… They ridiculed those in the dail that did highlight this for years.  That tells its own story.. you can see by comments above what certain supporters of them think and you can see the mentality.  They have all lost the plot..  they just point the fingers at others with ridiculous rants and if it wasn’t about such serious issue . It would be laughable ..
@Michael Clinton: oh I realised it too late ..  do you notice mention little Mary Boyle. He goes hiding. Says it all..
Littleone I agree with your assessment of FG and Ff but do you really honestly believe that SF care about Maurice McCabe and the other Gardai that have been persecuted?
LITTLEONE…apparently FF do..they are stead fastly refusing to pull the plug until they are 100% sure they can get a good election.
@Michael Clinton: fg/ff ers have a pep in their step this morningdid anyone pick up on brian hayes fg mep and professional bs artist,endorsing European anti corruption laws yesterday? as his party leader calls everyone a hypocrite instead of facing up to corruption
@mr snuffleupagus. Watched pat rabbitte admitting he knew about it and did nothing when he was in a position to do something. He was treated like a hero by Miriam. Likewise howlin. Why did he not act when he was actually in government? Kelly also full of bravado now. Labour seem to have been inflicted with collective amnesia insofar as they have forgotten that they were in government when this was becoming public.
@jane: to be honest. I don’t know what they think but at least they are asking all the questions people want answered.. whether you or anyone else likes them. They were elected by people in this country. Who they represent and those people deserve answers.   Unless people want to say all SF TDs are guilty of something in the past and then taint all the people that voted them as something they are not.  Then they are in their rights as TDs to ask questions and get answers.. to be honest if people want to know what’s in the head of all SF TDs .. email them and ask them .  Because why I am being asked is ridiculous…
FF have never once put the country and the people before themselves and the party..its not in their makeup. Thus given the fact they dont have enough candidates readied on the ground, they will happily abstain from the motion and let the shambles of an insult of a government carry on into the next chaotic scandal, whilst members go on radio and TV speaking about who poor the government is and theres a lack of leadership etc etc people should be more than wise to their ways at this stage. Since the foundation of the state its been : FF FG FF FF FG FF FG FF FF FG FF FG FF FF FG ….you get the idea anyway. Time for a change anyone!?!?!
Obviously they have every right to ask questions and table motions but that’s not really what I’m asking. Also I’m merely asking your opinion on SFs motives.
@harry barry: Fake outrage?? The outrage in the country at this FG/FF coalition is real. But it wont be reflected in the Dail today as FGand FF join together to Keep the Corruption going.
@jane:  how do you I know their motives? Do you. So do tell … I gave you my opinion on them asking questions and getting answers.. that’s what they were elected to do by the electorate.. should they sit on their hands and ask nothing? Is that your opinion.  You obviously think they have a motive so enlighten us. What it is? I see them asking questions and raising things like all other opposition TDs excluding ff .. which they were elected to do… Are you suggesting all the opposition TDs just have a motive???
No that’s not my opinion. Never mind, it was worth a try to have a proper discussion.
@Brian a bit rich of FG also when their own ministers have been on cover up for a number of years on it!
@jane: so it’s not your opinion they have a motive but your baiting me to say they have a motive. When twice I gave you my opinion on them.   Proper discussion like what trying to put things out that are not there like trying to suggest motives. OK Jane.
Billy kelleher FF morning Ireland.Fianna Fáil says government is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’.He also said fg needs to pull up their socks.  That will tell them.. it’s ridiculous.
@Patrick Gough: There’s absolutely no way that the Irish public want Maurice McCabe’s horrific treatment put on the long finger. In fact, an election would be the ideal catalyst for change and a strong message that Governments must stop this utter corruption.It’s another myth, a disingenuous story, that this issue wouldn’t be addressed in an election.An election would excellently serve justice to the most rotten core of this framing scandal. Hopefully this time we won’t have *lost votes, misappropriated votes this time. I really don’t trust any element of our so called *democratic state. It is not democratic. But we need Fine Gael and the corrupt sneak Kenny out NOW.
@LITTLEONE: The good news in all of this is that it will end any chance Frances Fitzgerald had of taking over FG. she’s now toast as far as leadership challenges are concerned.Kenny is a gonner now – no question. FF will probably let this drag on for as long as it’s inflicting serious wounds on the government. then they’ll pull the plug, but not until it ends a few FG careers.If however it begins to spread to FF too short-term, and it’s unlikely the current stock of fresh FF faces will be implicated, Martin may pull the plug now that they are at 32% in polls. Martin can just sit and wait otherwise, and watch the government get mangled. Maximum damage.
@harry barry: looks like dane is back. Run out of patriots names to use?
@Jane; Sinn Fein have brought down the Northern assembly in the face of corruption and bigotry. RHI, Irish language act, NAMA, LBGT rights, shared/integrated education grants, community grants etc. At a time that they will definitely be losing a number of MLAs due to number reductions in that assembly, 30%, and facing into an uncertain period of negotiations before a new assembly will be formed.With one motivation only, the status quo of corruption, inequality and bigotry cannot continue, to give the people a voice on that and follow the peoples wishes as laid down in up coming election.Exactly what is needed in Dail also!!
@Brendan Luke Ferron: Agreed, but then we will have Fianna Fail.   OMG.      All we can do is stayat home on election day.  Its the only option.
The same question arises in this state as does in northern state, maybe on differing lines but same results.WHO FEARS EQUALITY????
@LITTLEONE: Another alternative reality moment from the alternative political universe?
Shame on all you  Liars in Dail. you  are  not fit to serve our country  and people
Self service to resume when FF ensure the status quo remains..
If he isnt ousted from without he will be ousted from within.. And soon..
It is not only the Taoiseach’s handling on this matter which shows that he is unfit to be Taoiseach, it is the reality of the political policing which he has directed which needs to be exposed.As yourself why the Taoiseach is being so slippery and evasive about when he knew of the smear campaign against Sergeant McCabe.
Confidence in incompetence is a dangerous game.It should be the quickest debate in Dail history.No surprise really how the country is on its knees.Keep the recovery going alright…
@Horses for courses: You mean “Wreckovery” don’t you?
Vincent Browne was told about the sex abuse allegationsJohn Deasy was told about the sex abuse allegationsPat Rabbitte was told about the sex abuse allegationsJohn McGuinness was told about the sex abuse allegationsZappone was told about the sex abuse allegationsAll, with the exception of Zappone, were told by senior Garda officersWe are expected to believe that the only people in Dublin who did not know of the sex abuse allegations are:-The TaoiseachThe TanaisteThe Gard CommissionerThe three of then, Enda Kenny, Frances Fitzgerald and Noirin O’Sullivan are in it together.Meanwhile Regina Doherty, little Regina Doherty as she self describes, is telling all and sundry how wonderful the Garda Commissioner is and how she has transformed the ethical values in An Garda Siochana.And Fianna Fail cannot stop repeating how much confidence it has in the Government and in the Taoiseach!
Sure look at the wonderul job she is doing (nos) and she has such a hard job tasked upon her and look at the wonderful work Kenny has done in relation to child protection ….zzzzzzzZZZZ pity Regina wasnt as passionate about the reality
FF is happy to support FG from the sidelines.
@Tony Daly: Happy to direct more like…. This Fine Gael government sounds exactly like a Fianna Fail government….. Seriously
@Charlie Melia: actually you are correct. FF pulls the strings. FG, as the puppet, dances.
@Tony Daly: I believe they even do a lap dance for them in the Dail bar? lol.
SHAME ON FIANNA FAIL IF THEY SIT ON THEIR HANDS
Where is honesty anymore
@Anastasia: Politicians never had that, like the Tin man never had a heart and the scarecrow never had a brain…
For the first time since his freaky re-election as leader of the Government Enda Kenny is floating down a fast running river without a paddle. He’s been caught out lying to all members of the Dial. Confidence on this Government is at an all time low. I don’t think he’ll go this week, he’ll be allowed his dream of going to the White House for St Patricks day. His days are numbered as leader of FG & he knows it. I think Enda will last until Easter before standing down as Taoiseach & hopefully restore some dignity to the FG party.It’s a pity Michael Martin FF wouldn’t stand up & pull the plug on this rocky Government, but he can’t, he may need the support of FG after another election & he needs to try & scoop more TD’s over to FF with promises of a great future for FF. The timing is just wrong for FF, they just wouldn’t have enough seats to form the next government unless he has a mixed bag of TD’s from all corners of the house. So Mr Martin wont pull the plug on FG for that reason.
@ Liam John Bradshaw – ‘…..restore some dignity to the FG party’???? That sir, is an imposibility. But you are right about FF. Both parties are a disgrace.
@Em Ni Mhurchu: By stating that, I mean in Enda’s resignation. The party would be starting a fresh with a new Teasach in place, who ever that may be. It’s Kenny who’s the weak link. I’ve no loyalties to FG or FF for that matter. I can assure you Michael Martin & FF would leap at the chance to pull the plug on the Government. But it wouldn’t do them any good, FF can only wait for the polls to rise in their favour. Do you think for one minute that Mr Martin hasn’t being doing his sums?If FF pulled the plug on FG & there was a snap election we’d end up with the same figures as the last election & it could swing either way, even if it did swing to FF they’d still have to share power & will need to keep FG sweet!
The motion won’t be passed. Even though FF are way ahead in the opinion polls, they would not come close to forming a majority government by themselves, or with a coalition party. If they formed a minority government, they would need the help of FG to support them from opposition, not an easy thing to ask, after reneging on the 3 year deal they gave this government. Without FF voting against the government in this motion, it wont be past. FF will sit in the long grass a little longer, and watch this current government implode even more. If this government wants to last, Enda needs to step down as leader of FG now.
@Do the Bort man: For the record, I don’t have any confidence in this toothless independent led government, but just saying it as it is.
And if they were going to bring down the government they certainly wouldn’t do it on a SF motion. That’s just politics.
@jane: Exactly, if FF want to take the government down, it will be on their terms and when they decide.
@Do the Bort man: FF are making a big mistake sitting on the fence over this .The longer this sham goes on the more damage ff and fg will get. People are slowly but surely kopping on to what so called politics is in this country i.e. lies and corruption.
@do the bort always has to suit FF…always whats best for them
@Do the Bort man: Mean while hundreds if not thousands of decent Gardai suffer unbelievable torment.  Stay at Home,     don’t vote,
This is one of those ‘on mature recollection’ moments from Kenny. He’s on the ropes now. The Deasy interview was damning, Kenny and Shatter both well informed but didn’t act. Deasy clearly positioning himself for a ministerial post under Kenny’s successor and with a knife in Kenny’s back, assuming Kenny steps down and the government rides out the storm. The only thing gluing this shambolic crowd together is FF.
It’s rich of FIANNA fail  to back away from an Election when they are propping up the Government they are rats and it should never be forgotten what they did to this Country.
Election please
@Trevor Beacom: Revolution please
Honest question, what are you hoping for from an election?It would probably give something like Adrian Kavanagh has detailed here:https://adriankavanaghelections.org/2017/02/02/happy-new-year-for-fianna-fail-constituency-level-analysis-of-the-sunday-business-post-red-c-opion-poll-29th-january-2017/FF 56FG 44LAB 1SF 17Ind 28Other 12Give or take a few seats. That would give FF + FG combined 100 seats, they have 94 now.You see, with FF growing, a further ‘seat bonus’ comes into effect. Any further loss by FG will be gobbled up by FF. No-one is suddenly going to change from being a FG voter to a SF voter. A FF voter can become a SF voter, but a FG voter is unlikely, and it certainly won’t happen because of cute hoorism and shenanigans in the Dail.I know it’s popular here to pretend polls are all LIES or FAKE NEWS etc etc, and that a revolutionary alternative government is but an election away, but it’s hogwash.A minority government every 2-3 years is our likely political landscape for the next 10 years, with FG and FF swapping Taoiseachs.An election will usually mean a swap from FF to FG.
@Rónán O’Suilleabháin: Many a SF government with Independents?
If Taylor is innocent then Noirin is not and he has been conveniently exonerated, she will cost us hundreds of millions of €uros and we will be without a Garda force for years unless she resigns and tells the truth.  No individual can hold an entire nation of people to ransom and that she so far refuses if a sad reflection on everything and anybody who is connected to her.  Enda needs to sack her like he did with her buddy Mr Disgusting Callanan himself.  What is it about law and order people that they are all crooks at heart?
@Brendan Hegarty: They will appoint another officer from down the hall (probably based of her gender) and there will be no change.    That is for sure.  All senior officers were picked and promoted by Martin Callinan and Noreen O’Sullivan.    Its the same as I breed my cattle, I have been at it for years,   you can’t change my herd now by changing the bull
Why is everyone looking to FF ?  They will only pull the plug when they are sure of an outright victory -they are sneaky and dishonest and will never consider the country’s well being.  They dont have enough support yetEnda needs to go – it will take a couple of brave FGers to step up and oust him.Lets have an election as soon as possible.  Telling lies is not what our Taoiseach should be doing .
Finegael could save their party and stop the inevitable election if they dump Kenny and Fitzgerald. Fianna fail are happy to see Kenny in charge, so that when they pull the plug, finegael will be down in the polls and looking for a leader. How stupid or cowardly are the whole finegael party not to dump Kenny, he is a moron and a liability.
@joe o hare: Kenny and Fitzgerald are puppets of the US Democratic party.     They  will pour money in if there is an election to keep their puppets there.  Money buys votes.  This whole thing is the result of a rump of commie, greenie, leftie, celebrity lead re-all politic.  Hillary is the leader. There is a particular mindset which  was challenged by Trump and Brexit.    It is very strong in Ireland and Fianna Fail are in the same boat.This rump was orchestrated over many decades and no one can be appointed a manager in any public body or any private body (which is part of it) unless they are approved.  Competency is secondary to compliance.Just look at one simple thing.    TUSLA  (Health service)  fabricated an investigation that Sergt McCabe was abusing his children.    They investigated and found there was nothing to it.    Then they allowed the false report to continue  live so that senior Gardai could use it to destroy Sergt. McCabe.     Also 2 senior Gardai tried to frame Sergt, McCabe but he had a tape recorder.  They are still running the force.     Surely any government would call in an outside investigator and investigate it.    But no, they won’t.
A disgraceful, spineless shower.Fianna fail and Endapendents propping this disgusting government up, are just as bad.
@Unitedpeople: Independents could have insisted on an independent investigation
Fail by name – fail again by action.
For shame on you Fianna Fail. They tried to destroy a man’s life and his family and you continue to make excuses for them. As always they resort to that old chestnut of Sinn Fein bashing. This has nothing to do with SF, it’s about doing the right thing. But you lot wouldn’t have a clue what that is, you never have.
Independent refusing comments that suggest Noirin must go -ah forgot, that Doheny & Nesbits skeleton musn’t be rattled!  Do rotten apples roll when the applecart is upset?
While this is a serious situation it stinks of the game of politics. Politic
‘Pull up your socks’ is something you say to a teenager who isn’t studying enough for their junior cert. It is certainly not a term to be used for an incompetent government.
The auld saying , two cheeks of the same ☺
Can you imagine this happening anywhere else in the world? The opposition thinks that the government is shambolic and incoherent, but gives it its full support. Says a lot about the politics the opposition are capable of
The journal comment section is as corrupted and deluded as all political partys who claim to be repesenting the soverign democratic republic. The state departments and corrupt officials should be routed out and jail by the citizens and keepers of the state. This is a declaration of war against truth and justice and democracy for our kids and future generations. Finger banging social media is not going to change anything its just a way for self serving gutless cowards to vent their so called democratic views and deluded opinions. We have a nation of self serving tax paying/taken gombeens .
We have no real options here in Ireland. It’s tweedle dee or tweedle dum and the system is rigged to insure thats the way it stays. People had their say at the last election and still Kenny leads the country. There is no true democracy, only the illusion of choice.
A bit like the time you lot bankrupted the country. There’s none of you any good. You call yourselves politicians. What a joke. Your not even second rate debaters.
At this stage Fianna Fail seem to have more confidence in Enda Kenny than Fine Gael do!
FF summarised in that one headline there! 2 faced self serviant
Such a statement by Fianna Fail indicates that Fianna Fail is just as bad as Fine Gael. How absurd is to to say thatthe government is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ and then do nothing about it. If this statement is true then Fianna Fail, in the interest of the State, should vote for the motion of no confidence; otherwise they are hypocrites.
Not another Teflon thoiseach .
@Gerard Heery: Teflon is badly worn.
Load of nonsense from FF.
That’s sums up backward Ireland if any American companies are watching pack up and head home because this country is about to collapse….
Fianna fail had almost bought my vote. Despite previous problems with them, I had thought recently that I could put that aside and give them another chance. However if they prop up this government now they can forget it. I will remember, even if it’s 4 more years, and they will receive not a single preference.
FF has no choice but to support government, they won’t last on their own. They can’t stand up for what’s right. PITY.
FF need to stay out until the global economy secures and grows then they will be looking for blood when things are beginning to go well and will bring all this stuff back up and say they need a majority to manage the country properly  – and history shows us that Paddy elector will do it!!! FG had a fantastic opportunity to do something new when they got in – unions etc Would have let them away with everything and they could have instigated real change – but they did not, they followed FF policies so it’s their own fault. In the meantime it’s back to fools to the left idiots to the right of me and here we are stuck in the middle with a collation.
@Shane Cormican:they tried but the paddy rejected their referendums. Garda scandals was going on under Ff watch it’s time for Kenny to stand down and shouldn’t have never being Taoiseach in the first place
tribunals are where truth and accountability go to die.
FF !! The left cheek FG the other cheek …
FF know exactly what they are doing by not bringing down this government. The longer it remains in power the more it gets stuck in quagmires of its own making. And so it loses more and more voters. And FF will pick up the lions share of them.
If Independent Alliance pull there support will Fianna Fáil still abstain?
FF and fg are 2 cheeks of the same arse
Sickening .How dare anyone defend or vote for fg ff at this point. Kenny you’re an absolute disgrace and I curse the day you talked them into getting you back as Taoiseach .You had no mandate then and now it’s clear you’ve no soul .
Fianna Fáil says government is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’I could write this like…Fianna Fáil says HSE is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says Gardai is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says Merkel is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says E.U. is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says Brexit is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says property tax is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says Irish Water is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says USC is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says F.G. SCANDALS is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says Budgets are ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’Fianna Fáil says Enda is ‘incoherent and shambolic’ but will ‘ensure it survives’And so on and so on?
Rotten to the core every one of them.
Kenny will resign very soon me hole will call elections immediately  and the renegade indies will be no more
Of course the government is nervous.The addition of other whistleblowers would should a systematic policy of targeting whistleblowers by successive Garda Commissioners and fully supported, even encouraged, by successive Fine Gael Ministers for Justice.The elephant in the room is political policing and the role of the Government is supporting smear campaigns against  the whistleblowers.
Nervous? They should be grateful they haven’t been taken out and lynched. The can of worms has been opened. Any government who used the agencies of the state to threaten Gardai who dared speak out should not be sitting in Dail Eireann.What has been done is criminal. They should be facing charges. It’s that simple.
On the other hand, they shouldn’t be nervous as callinan ensured that most evidence implicating himself, Sullivan and contacts with the government were shredded.
People in the country are going to have to face up to a few facts and ask themselves are they happy to allow it to continue.Politicians are crooks, Garda management are crooks,  many judges are crooks, solicitors are crooks, bankers are crooks, the heads of various government agencies are crooks, NAMA is full of crooks, he that controls a large proportion of the media is a crook, IW is full of crooks, charities are controlled by crooks. It runs all the way across the top echelons of society in the country.What facilitates it is a political police force. Without this, this couldn’t carry on.That’s what the government is fighting tooth and nail to protect.
The gov claim they’ve no money for lots of things but they had no problem finding money to give themselves pay rises recently, and why, (and this is the punchline), because they’re “entitled” to it!
Maybe they could use some of the moneys going to tds pensions and expenses and termination payments etc, to cover some of the tribunal costs, seeing as their incompetence and lies and cover ups is central and the cause of the issue! But no, I expect them to disappear with their full political fortunes in tact while the innocent taxpayer pays for all. What a joke of a setup!
FG will fight tooth and nail on this to save further information on their cronies coming to light. Kenny will stand down, the government will fall and they’ll happily ride into the sunset with their gold plated pensions before the more moriarty tribunal is dealt with and the whole NAMA scandal implicates them in even further corruption. FF will take power, blame everything on “the previous government” and the charade will continue.
nervous? try being accused of something you did not do? or maybe that’s why they are all so nervous in ff/fgno ff/fg politician can save any face on this so just do the right thing now at least
the court of public opinion has decided against the lies and con artists
They would be.. Media may turn on their masters..
I believe that the only question that should be asked is,who is responsible for the cut and paste aspect of the Tulsa McCabe file.All those questions that could be asked can be traced back to this question.Who did it,who asked or ordered it to be done..etc, etc.Find this out and the rest will fall into place.
You’re looking for individual accountability in a govt agency? Good luck, but don’t hold your breath!
Are you gone yet Noirin-and Francis and Enda are hanging on by a thread-my God ye must think the Irish people are fools.Slan Adios Goodbye and Good Riddance .
Where’s the petition lads ? Petitions go to do with any lark these days and I haven’t seen anything pressing to do with this outrage – this will potentially go away Without petitions and marches ,we all know just how arrogant Kenny Noirin Mehoole will be over his .
@Bennythekid: Well they keep electing  Francis, and Enda, and the rest of the lifer’s Election after Election, so what does that tell you about the so called sophisticated Irish Electorate.
@Eyepopper: The word on the street is that the “cut & paste” report came from a self-employed counsellor who was working under contract to the HSE so it may not have emanated from an individual employed within a govt. agency!
Yay! Finally, Kenny has to go. All along I was hoping it would be his incredible ineptitude, his lack of leadership, his inability to answer a direct question, his arrogance beyond belief, his incredible failure to implement his pre-election promises and ultimately his complete disregard for the Irish people but any reason will do. Happy days.
I believe Kenny has 2 months to cling on and be fg’s longest serving taoiseach of all time and that is what he’s trying to do
He’s history now anyway. Out of his depth but we’ve known that since day one. Imagine where we’d be if we’d had a proper Taoiseach to challenge Junker and the likes of him. We’ve paid a high price for FG persisting with Kenny and only now will he pay a price and it’s just his pride it’ll cost.
That’s the only upside from this. Couple of weeks ago people media were saying there is no good reason for Kenny to go. There is now.
So it looks like the statements of clarification on the statements of clarification require further clarification? This is nothing short of a farce to the point that it appears Government TDs may have been aware of accusations as early as 2013/2014. This is only what has been made public, so it doesn’t bare thinking about what’s still stuffed under rugs of ministerial corridors. A farce indeed
The public want enda and his liars removed from office now,and zappone for lying as well.
He’s zero integrity,media should put pressure on Kenny to go.Rte just go through the motions with him,their a big part of the problem.
Who cares what the public wants? Do you think this is a democracy or something?
As a grand father, what’s going on with this country of ours being run by gombeen men and women for personal political and monetary gain is sickening.I despair for my grandchildren!
@Paul Mc:The country has always been run by gombeen men, it’s just that now we have gombeen women running it too.
Its complete and utter bullcrap..For starters a FF TD’s sister is the main presenter of the show that apparently had the exclusive.. There is no way FF or FG only found out the night of the programme.. That same TD was on the last word on Monday night and not once did Matt Cooper bring up that fact. Instead he had two FG TD’s and one FF TD and all they talked about was how naive Zappone was, not how the leader of our Country was lying through his teeth..
@John, it’s just sickening. They try to promote women and as a man with daughters and a granddaughter it’s absolutely sickening. Equality for the gombeens is the agenda these career politicians and career civil servants are pushing!
This is absolute bulls##t… kenny needs to go & take o sullivan with him.
@Willie the kid: General election comes to mind?
Enda Kenny couldn’t lie, straight in bed. A national embarrassment. But he does give hope that if you keep at something you can be anything you want when you grow up.
@Shayne O’Odonoghue:@Shayne O’Odonoghue:
It’s difficult to figure out how this country, which, by and large is populated by honest, descent people, can rid itself of this appalling political class.I am not a violent person, and I don’t advocate violence as a way of sorting out problems, but sometimes these people would make you question yourself.The behaviour of FG FF and indeed Lab over the last few days is nauseating, insulting, and an affront to ordinary descent people.
@Pius Flynn: keep the recovery going is about the longest lie they’ve kept going for 3 odd years. a few jobs announced here, a few more lost there. a bubble in dublin city with a few pockets in galway and cork. most of the country is destitute.
Yet again another can of worms for the Government to kick down the road it just gets better and better !!!!
@Marie Gunbay:Nah! They kicked the can of worms down the road when they got rid of Martin Callinan and appointed Noirin O’Sullivan, looks like the can of worms has sprung open now though.
Who does Kenny think he is.. he is in no position to continue to lead the country and was unfit before this. What is he now but a liar and traitor? We cant forget about Fitzgerald’s performance on Sunday, why should any of em including Noirin be allowed remain?
And cue some scandal involving SF to hit the headlines in 3,2,1 ……
Time to wheel out Senator Cahill I’d say.
@Leon O’Hagan: She was wheeled out yesterday when a liar tried to call Adams a hypocrite.
The slimey barristers in the ‘Four Goldmines’ are toasting the ineptitude of Kenny, Fitzgerald et al tonight as they will make multiple millions each from the tribunal.Hard to believe that for once he wasn’t originally to blame but still managed to dig himself into a hole, now if we only had a political party capable of back-filling that hole and burying the lot of them.
God knows who’ll be in power in 10 years or so when the Commission concludes…. Enda sure as hell , will have the feet up then laughing..Absolutely joke..
I wish thejournal stop helping these politicians getting prepared for these questions? lol.
Enda Kenny stated that the first he knew of the smear campaign was on Thursday nights prime time when asked by the 2 Sinn Fein tds. His own party colleague from Waterford,John deasy, said on prime time last night that he told enda in 2014 about the campaign. It’s crazy the amount of lies he is telling on this. It’s become a spiders web of lies
Gerry Adams step down, Enda Kenny Step down, Martin makes no difference……….Vote with your displeasure and lets make a change…….They are all panicking because they know we are really gonna get to the end of all the shit……We have no idea what they have really done
This makes the allegation of kenny earlier breaking dail rules by calling Adams a hypocrit, very mild now.
Are we getter a bit bogged down about who in Government knew what and when and losing sight of the bigger issue here which is the diabolical treatment of Sargent McCabe.  Does it matter if somebody only found out from Primetime or found out 24 hours earlier..??
They’ve told so many lies, they can’t even keep track themselves.
there are obviously ministers lying .and now because of the Lies. we the voters face a costly Tribunal. I think at this stage now Kenny should do the decent thing and step down. these liars are people whom we elected and trusted. shame on you
You wouldn’t see as many lies at an Italian Mafia trial. Gangsters the lot o’them.
Enda has to go now, he’s showing complete disregard to the Irish people’s intelligence. Reminds me of his buddy James Reilly who was similarly arrogant when his corrupt practices had many calling for his removal. He arrogantly defended the indefensible until the people finally had their say and removed him altogether. Enda can go the easy way or the hard way (although no doubt his Mayo clan will stick by him for a while yet).
Sing it with me… Why you always lying, why you always lying, ooooo ma God stop f**** lying.
Another waste tax payers money,lengthy tribunal, no straight foreward answers at the end,no heads rolling, no one jailed and government left I tact….typical of this country. At end at least I hope it will clear any misgivings gs and false wrong doings for Mr. MCCABE his family and all others who have been isolated and wrongly accused through whistyle blowing act. This act is a farce as there is no penalty for those who falsely make accusations about an individual.
Oh, give it up Journal.ie and stop the copy and paste, pretence that you are some kind of investigative news org, sending unanswered emails of questions to those in government. Stick to blogging secondhand news and clickbait for your advertisers.
This all ok Kenny lame duck
Disgusting!
I can’t help but think, there won’t be a general election just yet, that possibly would let too many high profile people off the hook. It’s possible Michael Martin steps in as taoiseach…………….
@Catherine Mc: There might be to much change to Keep the Corruption going. The nub of the matter is political policing. The government has turned the Gardai in a political force to crush any dissent.An independent Garda force could not stand by while naked corruption abounds in the country. An Independent Garda force would mean an independent judiciary. That wouldn’t do either. How could the banks get away with the wholesale mortgage fraud they’re engaged in. How could false or incorrect documents be used for evictions. How could the Gardai stand by and watch heavies throw families from their homes. How could NAMA exist, given the corruption surrounding it.It’s all about political policing and using the agencies of the state to threaten people.
To call this a farce would be an understatement.
“I am guilty here of not giving accurate information” Or lying as it’s commonly known. The Garda senior management is a cesspit of corruption and FF and FG did their level best to hide this and protect their political enforcers.
Only two weeks ago we had hundreds of Irish People down at the American Embassy protesting about Donald Trump, we also had the most popular TV show in the Country, The Late Late show give nearly an entire show to lambaste Trump.. Where are those people now I wonder..
You organise it David, I’ll come
Is there a public gathering either in support of Garda McCabe or at people’s disgust at the way this is being handled
It’s really hard to admit that Enda telling alternative facts is more annoying than Joan or Mary Lou coming out with same cliches every day in their “constructive opposition”! So I won’t. I’m way more amused by our current situation/ agreement and want it to continue in the same manner.
The leader of the country tells untruths and is still in his job wow our voters make some choices for heads of government.He doesn’t even see fit to meet the McCabes but backs Sullivan
Enda’s big plan is kick this down the road till paddy’s day break, then limp it home to the summer recess.
That’s right gavin ..it’s all sinn feins fault …. people like you are a serious problem in this country. ..in fact I’d go as far as to say you are a traitor to Ireland …
Lets have a riot….
Tommy, There will be a general election soon and you can express your disgust with FF, FG and the bogus Independents then.
Leave the can alone and kick Enda down the road
David, Do you think the people who protested about Trumps bigotry are in favour of poisonous Garda corruption?
Whats very upsetting is there are very highly paid advisors all paid above the threshold writing this absolute drivel to present to the irish people through the Dail.Are we forever to be taken for fools
Why does Enda Kenny have an earpiece on in the Dail?
@watersedge: He needs help….
Enda looks confused some of the time, quite a lot of the time. Those of you calling him a liar came swinging into the room, on the back of years of hypocritical name calling…cant have it both ways now. Either he is capable of lying. Or he is capable of sometimes tying his shoelaces.
@Gavin Scott: He uses Velcro for his shoes Gavin. Laces are way to complicated for him…..
Kerry on Sunday’s he wears his big boy shoes with the laces,but we pay people to tie them up for him.So in the end he’s a very happy Enda…
This basically sums up fghttps://youtu.be/QTISOOjeH7Mhave a laugh lads
https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=906931319367681&set=pcb.906931352701011&type=3&theater
It’s disrespectful to the term ‘farce’.
Enda Kenny is telling multiple lies somas to cover his tracks.
People gathering at a lot of Garda stations this Saturday at 6pm.
Jayus ! Kamasutra Kenny, more positions than a schizophrenic crackwh0re
The people of Ireland should march to Dail Eireann and show there support as he seems to have no support from the A G S I WHERE DO THE STAND IS WITH THE GOVERNMENT WHO GAVE THEM A PAY RISE OR THERE MEMBER WAKE UP BOYS OR IS PROMOTION MORE IMPORTANT
@Dave Crowley: Here is another for Kennyhttp://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/766811/Eurozone-crisis-Greece-ditch-euro-US-dollar-Trump-Ted-Malloch
@Irish Spider-Man: Won’t work as there is too much flouride in the water lol.
@watersedge: He had stitches as it looked under his black eye over a week ago now, is it a tin can cyborg?
@Enda Ireland:http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/766811/Eurozone-crisis-Greece-ditch-euro-US-dollar-Trump-Ted-MallochHow will Kenny prepare for this?
Am I missing something here…he lied on the national airwaves on Sunday? Is that correct? And when Zappone came back she wasn’t taking the fall? Is this the what happened?
Bit presumptuous to call it a lie, it could have been an alternative fact!
Fine Gaelers dont lie they just have no capacity to memorise important facts.
Christ. Just……..Christ.
@Brinster: so brinster are you still a fg cheerleader.
He was caught rapid. He could not even get the apology out of his mouth in English.
@David Dickenson:He was speaking Mayo-naise
He’s done huge damage to his reputation. Yuge.
@Deborah Behan: Enda has a reputation? Since when?
Kerry, a bad reputation is still a reputation.
Inconceivable that FF has not demanded the resignation of the Minister for justice, the Garda commissioner, and the Minister for children…..
@Peadar Ó Gréacháin: Purely because they’d be shooting themselves in the foot.
@Peadar. FF are cute hoors waiting and watching from the opposition benches while Enda and FG continue to shoot themselves in the foot. They will not bring the government down until they are confident they have the numbers to get back into power themselves.
@Peadar Ó Gréacháin:Not at all Peadar when you realise FF are cut from the exact same cloth. All Martin cares about is getting a comfortable majority next time. He couldn’t care less about Garda McCabe or the Irish people. Both FF and FG are party first country second. A cancer in our society.
Enda do Ireland a favour a step down. An embarrassment to this country.
He’s a lying shoite hawk…
@Eoin Mulhern:  Sorry I pressed the wrong button, I agree wholeheartedly with your commemt
Jesus help us if he’s left to do the negotiations for brexit and what drivel he will come back to us with.The prime minister and the justice minester telling bare faced lies to the nation,no wonder the country is in the state its in
well said john
Can he explain what happened in space of 16 minutes today.Enda couldn’t even give the same story in the dail today. He gave completely different answers to Martin than he did to Paul Murphy about the same question.. unbelievable .https://mobile.twitter.com/gavreilly/status/831521106221740033
If the answers are not prepared for him Enda will fail miserably.
I’ll make the comparison again. Even a member of the Trump administration resigned today for being economical with the truth. Kenny invented alternative facts. Kellyanne Conway simply gave the phenomenon a name
Conway came up with a new one today ‘That’s one characterisation of events’ she said, when being questioned about the circumstances of the Flynn resignation.
Fine Gael lost 22 last time they will get toasted proper next time
@Tony Hartigan: Somehow we have to keep their partners in coalition, FF, out as well.
Kenny says,”I am guilty here of giving inaccurate information” Also known as lying through his b#llox.Cringey at this stage…
Personally I think Zappone is naive. She probably told him verbally about each meeting and the outcome without a following it up with an email. She didnt cover herself and Enda is hanging her out to dry. Given that her involvement began at the end of january she is by no means the main character in the the sequence of torrid events that have been going on for 4 years plus.
Saoirse, you’re right. I said yesterday, these people don’t consider themselves ‘told’ about something unless they srein told formally, with a paper trail.
Shatter must be pissing himself
Here’s another fine Gael mess you’ve got us into.
Everyone is lying. A public inquiry or they need to go .This would be farcical in Bulgaria or Romania ,the latter are out on the streets calling for an end to corruption right now. Sick ideology is running this state.
Yuck.
If there were any worthwhile leadership in waiting in FG it would step up now and tell Kenny he has to go.  He is an embarrassment. Lying through his teeth to save his skin while McCabe is hung out to dry.
@Symbolism: No sign of Leo!
Sorry, but it is time for government to go, lying, lying, lying, then amnesia, HSE and Tulsa also allegedly brought into equation, two bodies we are supposed to trust, how can anyone believe these two organisations have made correct decisions about anything. Our best bet at the moment is to have a national government with no old school participating in it. Michael D should have the power to call the shots here. Absolutely unbelievable !
Shytehawks
Judge Judy would have this sorted out in no time,and save the country millions !!
I met a man holding 2 pints, who used to be in the “Army ATM” Corp. You know him, the lad from “Retrospective Recapitalisation” Land, he tells racist jokes, a bit of a “Special Case”https://trickstersworld.com/2016/04/14/endas-rump/
I can’t believe that kenny is accusing someone of having a “loose relationship with the truth”…. Coming from a proven liar and fantasist that is rich. He wouldn’t know the truth if it bit him .
I think it was Murphy who said that kenny has a casual relationship with the truth…if the above article is correct…the statement would seem to be so after the RTE broadcast on sunday
I know Enda is quite a keen cyclist and he specialises in back peddling.
Go enda and bring zapper and Frances and Noreen too. Ur all a disgrace to Ireland. Shame on u all.
Why are these still in government
I am asking the exact same question , Why indeed.
Because they are being propped up by michael martin and co who would like you to believe that they give one toss about sgt mc cabe and his family,does anyone believe they do?
Because it’s Valentine’s Day and nobody else will partner with Kenny and Martin.
@Anastasia: Because their enjoying the gravy train and we Irish are very servile. If this happened in France there would be riots on the street.
Flynn in the USA tells one lie and is forced out why oh why do they get away with here politicians,bankers,builders the list goes on and on
Do we really want this lying fool representing us on Brexit?
@Cathal Mac Einri: In fairness Cathal he is only producing alternative facts……
Can you imagine the tragic comedy Shakespeare could make out of this farce were he alive today.
Sean Spicer must have given advice on how to not tell the truth. Despicable government and back benchers.
Awful stuff from all areas shameful carry on . Guards,  ministers , the culture of rot is now endemic . So depressing for the youth of Ireland . Backbone , integrity , basic kindness and truth are nowhere in those at the top . Is all of Ireland chasing the euro . Power corrupts , truly
Neither zappone, fitzgerald nor kenny have any credibility left and should resign. A right bunch of liers.
He said, she said tripe!
@Paul Culligan: Must be near election time them, when he acts like this?
I am sorry….I lied….I resign.Is that not the normal procedure elsewhere?Not in Eire. Charley, Bertie and now Enda are testament to that.This is the new?? way of doin’ politics. Paddy likes to know nothin’.Bye Enda. Bye FG. Bye FF.
Where are all the blueshirt diehards today. Your silence is deafening.
Kenny, he’s been caught by the B’ollix & he’s trying to maneuver his way out. Micheal Martin is letting Me Kenny dig his own grave!
What a prize .rick he really is. He has to be the worst leader this country has ever had. Even the dogs on the street know that. Him and his government have just went from one clusterphuck to another. They should all do the decent thing and resign.
Taoiseach Enda Kenny knew about the vile campaign against Sergeant McCabe and the Taoiseach did nothing about it and indeed enabled it to continue.
Remember If you voted FG of FF in the last 10 years, you are the problem not the clowns that put themselves forward.Use you vote wisely next time.It’s just one big scandal after the next with this ramshackle government.
What’s with the who told who what?Government protocol is to correspond in writing.if you need to inform a fellow minister of something important, it needs to be put in writing for the sake of FOI records.
It’s called lying enda.
They are in government because of the electorate, in 2,3 or how many more months time it takes to go back to the country.What will happen?These muppets without one or two that have been caught and sacrificed will return to power and do exactly the same things over and over. Do you? Could you trust them after this ?No absolutely not but the majority of them will be re-elected and the Patsy’s that got caught will have to sneak off to Europe with a big fat pension, or retire in the bleedin lap of luxury.
It’s a bit like the man he meet with the two pints,
@Hilary McDuffy: Just Kenny’s トラ・トラ・トラ or Tora! Tora! Tora! moment?
Enda said “I understood from thinking myself”talking about alternative facts……
Thankfully we signed the Lisbon Treaty which should see these civil war military cops disbanded and a police force appropriate to a European civilian state (neutral) commissioned in our modern time. This is the end of Irish civil war politics and their respective parties. Experience says hard to kill a bad thing, optimism insists it couldn’t possibly get any worse unless they rejoin the commonwealth.
Enda lying. Why are people surprised ☺
He’s some man for the spoofing. Only this time it’s far more serious. He should call an election NOW
Wouldn’t lie straight in bed
Michael Martin and his Fianna Fail party are every bit culpable as this disastrous government for blackening Sgt. McCabe. May I remind every Fianna Fail deputy it is not in their remit to decide when an election is required. This is the most disgusting and serious cover up since the foundation of this Republic.
What I do know Fine Gael are toast after this. Who are they protecting ?
@Tony Hartigan: you have put your finger on it.
Mental reservation and alternative facts. If u want to be a good liar you need a good memory….otherwise you are a pathetic liar. All liars are reprehensible especially when they destroy lives. Mea Culpa doesn’t change anything.
Taoiseach Kenny is unfit to be Taoiseach.
A lie can travel a 100 times around the world,and still come back and bite you on the arse.
Mea culpa !!!!!!I’d say it wasn’t the first time
Who is Michael Martin PROTECTING ?
such silly sausages
He presented alternative facts. Seems to be on trend these days :)
The only one missing from this farce is the Office Cat…..who probably knows EXACTLY  what happened….The worm on the end of a fisherman’s hook twists and turns to escape…and that other little worm, The Schoolteacher from Castlebar, is no exception. Lord Acton put it fairly concisely: “Power tends to Corrupt, and Absolute Power corrupts Absolutely…..”
Liar
It was like the Kama Sutra of politics in there today.
Ah lads it just slipped auld kennys mind lads…give this gentleman a break…..
@A Random Guy: Kenny has a mind?
Lying sleveen
The office of taoiseach has been disgraced by this imbecile.
If this shambles happened in the UK there would have been immediate resignations but our clowns refuse to go and will continue to lie and spin in their own interests. They have no interest in the truth about Maurice McCabe, it is all about self preservation. They should all hang their heads in shame.
pinocchio kenny caught out again or maybe it’s kenny mitty!
It’s a waste of money … That’s what it is. A pension fund for the legal profession.
Dead right Mike, and you can add some fat cat judge to the barristers and solicitors who will make a fortune on this. The gravy train never stopped rolling for these guys.
@Mike Dowling: except that in public it will be obvious when the Commissioner’s legal team try to beat up on Sergeant McCabe they way that they were instructed to do during the O’Higgins Commission.Sergeant McCabe wanted a Tribunal of Inquiry and I’m pleased that he has got one. He now has a chance at vindication.
In the U.S. the accused would be removed from a position to influence any investigation
She actually called journalists to propogate the myth of discrediting the whistleblower acc. Howlin? Ok journos time to com clean.
Which journo was called and by whom to say mc cabe was up on dodgy accusations to discredit him?
@gregory:   correct, some elements of the media were used as part of the smear campaign also. The journalists involved need to be called to account, & to provide answers.
Any journo who right now is withholding information needs to examine their conscience. They also need to act with truth and honesty in the interest of our Country. Not to do so is shameful and a dis-service to the innocent parties involved. It ain’t right and you know who you are. So, do the right thing now.
Thanks Zoe. This is our biggest problem. They have the information we need and they need to come clean in the national interest.
@Zoe Daly: just think of the amount of established figures who could find themselves being sued or worse in court?
@gregory: paul Williams I hear wants to make a statement lol, wonder what alias’s he can come up with?
The danger is that the Commissioner remaining in office could do a lot to obstruct the Tribunal.If FG was truly serious about the Tribunal, the Commissioner would have been removed from active duty.
@ciaran: Paul,Williams is not to be trusted.
@Tony Daly: ah tony come on he was one of the indo’s leading journalists in condemning and not name calling Mr. McCabe, spends him time in pubs lickin garda boots sorry special branch badges
@ciaran: got one, ” the fluzi with the uzi”,
Not a shred of credibility. DoB media> fg>Min. Justice> commissioner> whistleblower
how about a criminal investigation into aiding and abetting? its a step in the right direction and ALL who knew would have to make a statement under caution
1)Whistleblower accuses the gardai top brass of mal-practice. 2) garda accuse Whistleblower of misconduct utilizing elaborate scheme involving 2 other state agencies to discredit Whistleblower claims 3) journos contact td howlin to state they were informed of wrong doing by Whistleblower an Howlin exposes the truth 4) said state agencies retract any and all claims of impropriety against Whistleblower 5) taoiseach leaves gardai top brass in place and in a position to influence evidentiary hearings. Only in Ireland, but even for Ireland this is wholly unacceptable.
@gregory: the obvious factor here is the Taoiseach colluding with the last 2 Commissioners.Kenny needs to be called as a witness and properly examined.
Looks like the man with 2 pints was an oxymoron for a Commissioner in each hand. I take it all back ek is a genius – I jest
Let me save you the time to read the article. A Tribunal of Enquiry is a 10 to 15 year process that makes multi millionaires of several junior and senior council at the expense of the taxpayer and results in nobody being found culpable or going to jail. It’s the ultimate piss take on the taxpayer and public.
They are all crooks. No inquiry needed.
@gregory: I would not include Sergeant McCabe in that but otherwise your point is valid.
Agree. ‘Twas the Royal “we”
It’s an excuse by the government to claim they got to the end of the matter…even though they make up the rules. It’s a another can to kick on.
It’s for money grabbing b@stards
Ya gotta feed the vultures,they can’t live on personal injury claims with the price of Charlie these days.
The Crony Club will be delighted.
So will Garda McCabe. He asked for this and I’m happy he got it.
He’s letting them off lightly, he has the whole lot of them on the ropes, a tribunal gives them breathing space, he should refuse to partake in another one of these wasteful “tribunals” and insist on a criminal investigation. Why should the tax payers pick up the costs for another useless talking shop, let the courts decide.
Commissioner O’Sullivan continued Commissioner Callinan’s campaign against Sergeant McCabe.  She was vengeful, vicious, malignant and nasty.
Moriarty tribunal is on shelf gathering dust.criminal findings against DOB and Michael Lowry TD.
It should be called a cover up
It’s “Ching Ching” for solicitors
There must be a better way…….
@Sean Higgins: there is no other way, unfortunately.
In the unique circumstances of the prolonged smear campaign against Sergeant McCabe, this Tribunal of Inquiry conducted in public under oath at long last offers the best forum for Sergeant McCabe to detail,what was done to him and to find out the identities of each and all of those who tried to assassinate his character and to destroy his family.The Public Inquiry will allow Commissioner O’Sullivan and Commissioner O’Callaghan as well as the other conspirators who set about destroying him.It is time to hiold powervand privilege to account.
Id rather the journos who contacted howlin came out and spoke the truth
@gregory: fair point but they won’t
@gregory:Career hari-kari.
Tja, forgot about the mandatory DoB hari-kari procedure it’s in all their (journo) contracts apparently
What’s with all involved to be made give a sworn affidavit, then be brought before a public tribunal and asked to defend it..would speed things up..this can’t go on for 10-15 years..too much at stake here.
@sparky wrong*
The point in all of this for me is that consecutive fg and ff governments over a period of decades have jumped from scandal to scandal followed by tribunal after tribunal and are then re elected after its all swept under the carpet, time for big change on this great little island of ours
What did they do to the ordinary person who made a complaint against them
@David Clarke: destroy them by fitting them up.
Of course, FG has pulled the wagons around Commissioner O’Sullivan.
The right hand of t’other lad who was let go. Dodgy all right. Obvious to all.
Is that the charade where anything potentially incriminating is ruled out before it starts and the legal profession laugh all the way to the bank?
@Emmet O’Keeffe:  I’m willing to wait and see.
Well, a tribunal is a very complex large scale legal means of reaching the conclusions that Bertie Ahern, Michael Lowry and D.O.B. are corrupt and while this is then common knowledge no legal proceedings will ever occur.  Ahern committed perjury, coerced his assistant to commit perjury, evaded tax, received sterling payments which the judge found his explanation for unconvincing (had no bank account so payments couldn’t be detected, etc.) and Ahern is still walking around a free man…..presumably only because there isn’t space in prison over the last so many years.  Lowry is one of Tipp’s own and will show those high-falutin’ Jackeens that good old Tipp won’t be found wantin’….yeeha!  D.O.B. is into whatever your having yourself……Noirin O’Sullivan will be found complicit or mainly responsible for attempting to smear McCabe with whatever was lying around (presumably the Tusla doctored file was to be widely known but not officially raised so that it could be brought into play behind the scenes to substantiate the rumour, but never actually brought out into the light of day to be properly examined………To be honest I can’t even be bothered to check back and see if that matches the known facts of the McCabe / Tusla file or not, because what’s the point!
@David A. Murray:   You know what?  If you can’t beat them, join them……….”Hello, is this Frances Fitzgerald?  Frances, I saw your appearance on last Sunday’s ‘The Week In Politics’.  Can I offer my services as a PR consultant?  You see whoever is giving you PR advice is doing a terrible job and simply massively overcharging you and you desperately need coaching to break those trained tactics that don’t convince and just make your actual thoughts and feelings very obvious.Yes, I’m cheap and I’m fairly aware (i.e. I can see and hear how you are coming across) so I can demonstrate to you exactly where you went wrong (which was 95% of the interview by the way).  Fine, I can make 12.30pm this Thursday.  Listen, just a quick free hint before we sign the contract….don’t try levity and bonne-hommie about your cabinet colleagues when the situation is this serious, instead look concerned and speak slower and more neutrally…..it’s less of a dead giveaway……..”
Regina Doherty made a strenuous defence of Commissioner O’Sullivan today before the Tribunal has got started.
Without any detailed reasoning as to why such a defence would have been warranted. Unreal.
@gregory: that is the precise point.
This is the best forum to expose the machinations of Commissioners Callinan and O’Sullivan.
Tribunals for dummies : window dressing til the public amnesia returns
………………………. (THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE WITNESS  AGAINST THY NEIGHBOUR )………………….
If this Tribunal performs it task properly and exposes those who directed the Commissiomers, it may greatly damage senior figures in FG, the Taoiseach included.It’s time for a reckoning.
A person accused of a crime cannot be convicted out of his own mouth.    Most democracies have rules against self incrimination.    In a Tribunal , a witness can be compelled to testify and can be subject to cross examination but the evidence cannot be used in a court of law where a person can be convicted.Its a poor excuse for a proper criminal investigation, it makes lawyers rich.    I accept most of the readers on hear are too think to understand it.
“On hear are too think to understand it” – I suspect most readers on here are not thick and can spell a bit better than you.
And you’re “too think” for basic spelling Valentine. Have you enjoyed your day?
Ahhh Val, you were going so well until the last line and wrote “think” instead of “thick” which would be ironic and funny if you ment it. Morto for ya.
@Val Martin: “too think” One born every day Val……
@Val Martin: Tried to insult people’s intelligence but made a complete town halls of it….love it. Brain fart of the day goes to you, good sir.
@val, ever heard of pleading guilty?
, ever hear of a nobody being sent forward for a tribunal? no?tribunals or whatever they call them today are a political way of dodging the truth always was in this country, safety blanket if you will as your future proofed against prosecution legally
all of ff’s “opposition” talking rights should be removed from them immediately imoKenny, fitzgerald, martin, most of all last minute appointees by o Sullivan including her own self should be looking through bars or at least be in a interview room so as they won’t suffer the “I don’t recall excuse”. get them all to make a witness statement under caution witnessed by commissioners of the peace now while it is fresh, make it public and see who eats who? then let whats left of ff and fg have their tribunal
She should already one week now have beem removed from any position with access to evidentiary information.
@gregory: alas the socially acceptable veneer is gone of the lot of them, no moral authority to hold any position in irish life, pond life, should all go look for a gig off denis the “go to” guy!
This Tribunal offers the only chance of exposing the truth in public.
These commissions are to ensure that nobody actually gets arrested  and charged for any wrongdoing,used by Irish governments, particularly by FG  to bury complaints in the fullness of time.
5 years later “we’ve found that nobody was at fault and it must of been a computer glitch”
You can’t call someone a hypocrite..but you can tell lies and more lies plus a few tall tales or as they’re commonly called..lies
@kieran. Nail on the head. Ends has blatantly lied to the public and the dail in an attempt to pervert the course of justice. Yet this is unparliamentary. The Romanians took to the streets last week against corruption. We let it go.
@Anne Marie Devlin: They took to the streets night after night. Bulgarians here two years ago took to the streets night after night for weeks to force change. 3 people burned themselves to death in some of the protests.In Ireland, nothing happens.
@Dave Doyle. It seems as if Stockholm syndrome was misnamed. Should be Irish syndrome. We’re the bigger eejits for allowing them to sit behind their desks tomorrow. How can this not bring down a government. It’s not even as if Maurice McCabe is the only guard who has been framed as child sexual abuser by the authorities.
@Anne Marie Devlin:  I live the other side of Europe. I’m angry. I’m angry at what’s going on where my family still lives and works. I can’t understand how the government is getting away with this. Where are the leaders?Maybe i can feel anger because i’m not fluoridated out of my brain any more. I am really at a loss to understand the docility of people that will allow this to carry on.
Enda kenny Sunday 12/2/17 ” but I don’t deal in endless allegations and hearsay, they are not valid in my book”.Enda Jenny Tuesday 14/2/17. Breaks Dail rule to repeat allegations and hearsay from Maria Cahill, the woman who ran away from a court of law in Belfast to conduct her trial by media with a willing enda kenny and compliant media. Calling others hypocrite!!Proof at last that enda’s book only covers his cronies.
Kenny and co apart from zappone were an absolute disgrace today.. shameful the carry on..  lies after lies he spouted.. someone needs to remind fg and enda Kenny that answering questions in the dail is also for the electorate, people who pay his wages and his smart ass comments, deflection and bluster were outrageous .  Him smiling when he was trying to justify his lies from Sunday and last week was something else.
Fg attacking sf because they are incompetent of their job ff should not be a loud to get away from this also what did ff say to commissioner callaghan in the secret car park meeting.I am calling on the mary boyle case to be reopened.Fg ff are hiding a lot of stuff that needs to be opened up to the public.
Where is dirmuid to night lads.Fg supporters have some party full of lyers.Ff supporters ye are living in denial because ff are lyers to.
So how do you know he told lies !!!  He called the biggest liar in the Dail a hypocrite
And it’s “liars”
@Margaret Mcgarry:https://www.facebook.com/grammarly/photos/a.158139670871698.33824.139729956046003/1025340544151602/?type=1&theater
@Kieran OKeeffe: a poster should be made of the entire comments on this page and billboarded to oconnell street.
Margaret there’s no doubt that Kenny lied and continues to lie. He’s still right about Adams and SF in general though. And that is where the problem is for the non FG, FF, SF diehards. For the first time I would consider not voting next time out, what’s the feckin point. So disheartening.
baron adams was simply told some home truth, remember how he disgracefully treated whistleblower maria cahill. I am delighted that karma is going to deliver a hard border for the shinners, truly delighted
has there ever been a bigger hypocrite than baron adams? outraged by everything ashamed of nothing
@ bobby are you actually saying gerry Adams speaks the truth dear god. Kenny is right this time that’s what Adams is.
Glass houses and throwing stones. Quite funny considering his own statements have contradicted one another three times in the past few days
I was watching Oireachtas TV and Enda Kenny had an earpiece in. It’s not his fault, he’s being told to say it.
As much as I’d like that to be true he’s been using one for weeks now as his left is isn’t up to scratch and that’s the ear that faces most TDs
@Stephen Todd: He contradicted himself within 16 minutes in the Dáil today. He outed himself as telling porkies at 2.16 and then tried to go back to the old line about Zappone had told him nothing at 2.32. Hilariously desperate stuff.
I seen a large number of garda outside Leinster house this evening supporting Maurice McCabe, and other whistleblowers thought I was dreaming.
They need to give their leader an ultimatum on your bike
Or desperately hilarious ! What a shower of chancers
He’s on the ropes…bad bad week for Enda..another couple of these and we might get shot if him
@Tony Skillington: Hopefully an embarrassment to this country….
Left and right ears both had it on even when one of the zappone Fitzgerald do beside him where talking
*duo
@watersedge: Phil Hogan was on the other end telling him what to say.
@Aron Donnelly: pouring a glass of water down his snout.
Enda kenny, who refused to meet the victim of a rape carried out in this jurisdiction, yet at the same time wheeled Mairia Cahill, the alleged victim of a rape in another jurisdiction, out for the media to score tawdry political points, while his government were busy cutting the funding to rape crisis centers, calling Adams a  ‘hypocrite’ and mentioning said Mairia Cahill.Let that sink in.You couldn’t make it up. But enda can, he’s good at that sort of stuff according to some lad with a pint in each hand,
@For Connolly: Aithníonn ciaróg ciaróg eile. End Kenny would know all about hypocrites sure isn’t he one himself.
Enda Kenny is a pure shame of a man!
He’s a worm.
Which one.
But Gerry is hypocritical in many of his dealings.
@Brendan McGill:You can talk to a man with a wooden leg. But you can’t talk to a man with a wooden head.
That pretty much sums up fg policy.   When you are unwilling to give honest responses,  resort to name calling and snide personal attacks.
@Matt Connolly: he’s one of the worst for it because he’s a sleveen, not a leader. he will go out as one of the worst leaders now, he’s way past retirement age like noonan. i don’t anyone should be in there after 65, give other people a chance.
@Paudi Onail: is this the same SF/IRA that gave a standing ovation to the vile subhumans who murdered jerry mc cabe
Kenny said that being accused of child sex abuse was the worst allegation that could be made against someone in this country and then turns around and practically accused adams of it. An allegation and not a fact. Such a farce. He never answers questions from adams.
Enda Kenny, calling anyone a hypocrite is laughable tax on a person’s home ring any Bellsenda.
That was immoral taxing a family home,Kenny even said it himself.And then taxed it anyway for his belly rub and head pat.A proven liar and sleeveen.
If that isn’t reason enough to collapse the government I don’t what is
When in doubt blame the RA
I saw Martin attempt the same on the news this evening.
Ends feeling the pressure.. His own will soon eat him ☺
I see Gobsh*te is allowed
As is F… you Deputy Stagg!
You missed the second F… you!
Best ever David
It was implied Brendan.
What did Simon Harris know after Phone call on 18th Jan from Mc Cabes, Tusla had to be mentioned for him to refer it back to Ziccone. Who did he also inform about that call as every kind of alarms should have been going of in his mind!!!!
Pish off Harry u utter gimp
Absolute nonsense, the Dáil above all places in the nation should be a bastion of free speech, there should be no such thing as parliamentary language, even though Kenny proves himself to be a guttersnipe.
Let’s say a member of the Communist Party is elected… Can you seriously not call them a Communist???? Bizarre!!!
The old Workers Party were self confessed communists ..
What an awful g0b$hite he is.
Kennys a black belt in self preservation,and hide and seek champion when fg get caught out with corruption.
Really. .. All the bare faced lies they have told publicly they should go to jail!
There will no longer be any lies told anywhere, from here on in there will only be “incomplete truths” It is becoming very clear when Enda was first aware of the allegations about Maurice McCabe. It is not so clear when he will answer it completely. At this rate in the event of #GE2017 FG will be lucky to get their core vote out!
Didnt he and others breach rules by lying about this McCabe case? GO!
I can’t take much more of this, surely all those concerned should step aside and let their junior ministers take over until these issues are dealt with ! It’s really gone beyond the comprehension of normal people what they would expect of any government, whether they liked them or not. So embarrassing and insulting to the Irish electorate.
@Catherine Mc: This wouldn’t be tolerated in any other country.
Dave, that’s for sure, but now it is actually upsetting to see what is unfolding, you get prison for perjury in court,, in the dail do as you please, we may vote these people in but we don’t vote in ministers and definitely not anyone who appear to misuse their position in that capacity. The HSE and TULSA is also a very worrying development, we do need a forensic clean sweep right across the board.
There was some amount of hypocrites on the FF bench none more so than Micky Martin  the biggest hypocrite in the Dail.
“Kenny confirmed that a public Tribunal of Inquiry would be set up to delve into the case”….Every. Time. I don’t claim to be a proud Republican or hard working patriot but there must come a point when we don’t ease back into our cosy lifestyle (it is for the majority. It’s a simple fact) and call b*******.
Totally off topic but why aren’t you allowed say “yahoo”?
Fuсk knows.. I’m offering my services though if anyone in Leinster House wants a list drafted of colorful words they can use. Free sample : Twаtwaffle…the noise that’s heard every time Enda opens his gob….
@Sandra Waddick:http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=yahoo&defid=554905
@Wesley Moore: Yahoo is : an Internet search engine, a term used to express extreme joy.Never in life would I have associated Yahoo with an ignorant rural person  :-)Kenny ya Yahoo! Doesn’t do if 4 me.
@Sandra Waddick: lol Sandra, I’ve often wondered about what words the Journal has banned as well. I’d like to see the list, perhaps put it on here to save people copying and pasting their comments for not going through.
Pair of hypocrites the 2 of em. Don’t know which 1 is worse.
Enda
Worst leader this country has ever had. A spineless coward of a “man”.
If Kenny does not resign this week, there will have to be an election in the summer.The party know this, and the wheels will be in motion for a challenge to the leadership.Only in Ireland would he still be the Prime Minister!
@John Martin: i reckon the people of ireland want one now at this stage, they didn’t up to last week but this is sickest of all sickness.
I’m not a Sinn Fein supporter.However, it was obvious to me that Enda Kenny was attacking Gerry Adams, because Enda is running scared. Enda realises, HE HAS BEEN FOUND OUT, and may be guilty of real criminal activities…. Not just the Garda Commissioner!………..
What a load of bullshit
Ashamed to be a blueshirt
You are? Do blueshirts refer to themselves as blueshirts?
God you’re quick
Kenny is a farce and needs to go immediately. He is, however, 100% correct re Adams. Didnt Gerry ship his child abusing brother over the border to a youth group in Dundalk? Strangely, the people of Louth rewarded this with a Dail seat.
@Charlie Wrex: How does one adult go about ‘shipping’ another adult? Are you claiming that liam adams did not travel on his on volition, because you’re sounding kind of silly.
Silly? Inane deflecting again FC? No doubt youll find time to overlook the small matter of not reporting a self confessed, and convicted, child abuser to work with more children. Genuinely disgusting effort FC.
Whats genuinely disgusting is your infantile effort to claim Adams ‘shipped’ his brother anywhere, something that didn’t happen, in an effort to deflect from captain clusterf*ck once again wheeling out a victim of an alleged rape and hiding behind her to aviod his obligation to answer qyestions put to him by democratically elected people.
Lol. I care less about Kenny. I do agree with him re Adams hypocrisy. Feel free to address why Adams didnt report his brother. Feel free to explain why Adams warned nobody in Dundalk. He is in no position to lecture anyone here. Heres the full story:http://www.broadsheet.ie/2014/10/31/falls-memory-syndrome/
Nice to see you consider this a laughing matter. While we’re on about ‘disgusting’ and all that. Your faux disgust is sincre as a brazzers kiss.
Yeah i know FC, you use that brazzer line all the time. Strangely, you never managed to answer anything i asked – probably because you cant comfortably do so. Id genuinely hate to be so blinkered that i deflect and defend that bearded man the way you do. Absolutely shameless stuff. If Kenny got the boot tomorrow id be delighted. I laugh because you think id want to defend kenny. I laugh because, as always, you are unable to acknowledge the inherent wrongness of Adams actions – all the while demanding truth and justice from everyone else. I take great comfort knowing i lack that myopic facility FC.
@Charles a wreck, Nice valentine tribute to f.c,infatuation at its finest.
@Dave cullen: “you are unable to acknowledge the inherent wrongness of Adams actions ”Y’see charles, this is where its blatantly obvious that you’re looking for scruffy little political point scoring instead of actually displaying the slightest bit of empathy for the victim…..When I see the victim of rape or paedophelia, I point the finger at the rapist/paedophile. You exclaim ‘noun-verb-Gerry Adams’.While you’re on about ‘genuinely disgusting’, try discussing the ‘wrongness’ of the actions of the actual abuser. So, yes, sincere as a brazzers kiss.
Apologies Dave, that was @ charles
@Charlie Wrex: If anyone is deflecting you are. Are you not sick of this corrupt sham of a government?
@For Connolly: Don’t worry about FC. Everyone know that he can’t deal with the truth. He has said on a number of occasions that he is not a member of SF.  He will defend Gerry on his  knowledge of child abuse and covering for knowledge of murderers
Dave, did you not read what i said? Id love to see Kenny collect his p45. I said yesterday that i couldn’t care less if the government falls over McCabe. Justice needs to be done and be seen to done. What im not understanding why FC the shinnermeister, is how its ok to not report child abuse. You and i have had a similar conversation previously. Kenny is a thoroughbred oaf but hes right calling Adams a hypocrite. FC cant comprehend any wrongness in not reporting child abuse and appears unconcerned that Adams was allowed join youth club as a leader. FC prefers to hide behind the “point scoring” holy water of perpetual absolution. Its immaterial what party or leader did this. Everyone has a non negotiable duty to report child abuse
@Charlie Wrex: FFS Charlie, can you not see the difference in ONE episode of sexual abuse that may in it’s extremities be stuck on GA as a label, and the wholesale sexual abuse the FF and FG governments facilited and covered up for decades? There’s Maria Cahill whose claimed sexual abuse was never proven, and there;s Louise O Keefe whose sexual abuse was proven. But who was the better to be used as a political football in am attempt to stifle an opposition party on the rise?As far as i’m aware as soon as Adams knew about the sexual abuse carried out by his relative he acted on it. What various governments have done to victims of sexual abuse trying to gain redress through the courts is the work of pure hypocrites, Kenny’s government is still active in this bullying. So who’s the real hypocrite?
@Dave Doyle: Add to it Charlie, the attempts by the government to use its agencies to threaten serving members of the Gardai with removing their children on knowingly false charges of sexual abuse. And Kenny has the gall to call Adams a hypocrite??
@Charlie Wrex: Charlie, stay on point, deflect for another day on another issue, one at a time please.
Sinn Fein have always cared about the Gardai and whistleblowers, this is not a political football.
@alphanautica: They over saw wholesale reform of the PSNI so they are probably the best party to do the same for our corrupt force.
IT’S A GOOD JOB ENDA KENNY DIDN’T FOLLOW THROUGH WITH HIS TEACHING JOB! ALL THE PUPILS WOULD BE MUMMETS & LIERS!!
@ROGER McCARRON: What’s a ‘mummet’?
SOMEBODY WHO’S GOT NOTHING BETWEEN THE EARS!!
Watched the Dail coverage and quiet frankly it was a sham. Political point scoring is all it was. Maurice McCabe has only one on his side and she is Minister Zapone.
As I was going down the stairs I met a man who wasn’t there! He wasn’t there again today! I wish that man would go away! And take those two pints, boasts about how much money he has after the budget, and the need to guard the ATMs with the army because he lives in an island of thieves and robbers who just don’t appreciate the sacrifice he has had to make them endure!
He should have said “Fukc you, Deputy Adams”.
@Ben McArthur: Enda is probably better off keeping his mouth shut. After all every time he opens it he embarrasses us all….
@Kerry Blake: So was Paul Gogarty. Seems the reference is lost here. Oh well.
@Ben McArthur:  At least Gogarty was truthful unlike Enda…….
Why was Donald Trump not protected by this rule
Have we elected him to something?
wow, get that idiot out of there, he’s an absolute despicable lying joke. to be dragged kicking screaming like cowen back in 2011 within the next 2 months. oh why does it have to be so hard to leave the trough. (you’re still going to get fed on a fat pension for lying which is rather profound) ZERO spared jail time. An easy way out we can all agree, it surely wouldn’t be fair jail as I predict the usual outcomes of such farcity.
I have a dreadful feeling that we may well be looking at a GE in the near future if something is not done now to reassure the public..this situation can not continue and clarity is required urgently. Claire’s poll last night might have been different in light of the latest statement by Mr kenny
Nobody but nobody believes a single word that comes out of Kenny’s mouth, time for him to push off, he is not wanted.
Random but whats wrong with saying Yahoo??
@Paul:“Yahoos in Gulliver’s Travels. The Yahoos are a primitive human-like race which Gulliver encounters in the land of the Houyhnhnms,”Sort of sums Kenny up.
Can’t say s(umbag on Journal either?
Collar getting tight and sweating
Get real Irish and worry about being hung by the local Stasi rather than the very polite nomenclature used by Kenny to describe a true and useless was..r and political enuch
Well he is.
@Peter Cunningham: An idiot?
King Kenny the all irl champion of liars & childish non existence 2 pints man . Kenny a lie has no future & your living a lie with finegael . Terrible to think this village idiot is in charge of our country .
Fcuk you deputy Stagg
He’s feeling the pressure!
Politics : The act of telling lies to get elected, ignore those lies once elected and create new lies. Once the lies are discovered, tell more lies to cling on to what you have….. Insert name of any Irish politician for an example.
Can you say someone is “Acting The Ghowl”?
Don’t see ‘Liar’ in the banned list.  Surprised it’s so little thrown. Suppose it’s a case of worrying about Dear Pot yours sincerely blackarse
For once I agree with Kenny. Adams badly needed to be told to get the f*ck out with his hypocrisy and blather. When SF stops sheltering child abusers and ends all connections to criminality, they might be taken seriously.
Could he have said he was a “Langer”
https://twitter.com/wallacemick/status/831916812677894147This McCabe scandal has been happening years with Fianna Fail Finna Gael and Labour mocking and turning a blind eye to it when Luke Ming and Mick Wallace and Clare Daly brought it up time and time again. Moriarty ,Mahon tribunal ,Father Molly and Mary Boyle all scandals. Disgraceful rotten cess pit
Pot .McKettle
This government is finished, stick a fork in them.
Dont forget FF are in power currently also. they could have brought govt down but their party interests always first
A pitchfork
Somebody better make sure the Taoiseach knows about the announcement!!!
@John Smith: Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
@John Smith: and after the next election if the polls are to go by we’ll have FF back in power.  Yippeeeeeeeeeeeeee great choice …………………… NOT
@John Smith: Unfortunately it won’t be.  there’ll be a tribunal lasting 15 years, no conclusions and everyone keeps their job.  That’s the way it’s always been.  No reason to think there’ll be a change
Anne Marie that is why O’Sullivan should be forced out now. The politicians involved will be resigned to the back benches in a few months but she could go on in her job for years.
A number of people ‘vehemently’ deny that the earth is round and insist it’s flat, nobody else believes those fools either…
@Jed I. Knight: I don’t believe the vehement deniers. How could anyone admit to such misconduct.
The Bart Simpson  defences will get a lot of use.
@Anne Marie Devlin:Fully agree, and if by some chance if there’s is a conclusion, Morris here”s a cheque  and to  those who caused the problem, fortunately their covered under legislation so they”ll get their full entitlement, index linked pension and golden handshake, and we wait until it all starts all over again.
I’m hopeful that the Tribunal will give Sergeant McCabe long awaited vindication and show Callinan and O’Sullivan for what they really are. That alone will be beneficial.
Now is the time for any other guard with information on this to step forward. You will never have a better time to do it.
@Joe Travers: as long as within the Terms of Reference.
Relax there Tony, take a breath, we get it. You don’t have to comment on every comment on this article
@Skip Goose: awfully kind of you.
@Tony Daly:  You can add Paul Williams to that list. What a liar, right up there with O’Sullivan and Callinan, he is embroiled in this, he should be investigated and behind bars, a proper grade A gutter journalist.
They’ve only said that they are setup an inquiry. That means very little until a Judge is assigned to led it.And now we hear Judge Charleton may not be able to chair inquiry, you just cannot make this BS up
Another waste of taxpayer money… A tribunal with no legal ramifications or accountability at the end of it. This country is a joke.
Enda couldn’t even give the same story in the dail today. He gave completely different answers to Martin than he did to Paul Murphy about the same question.. unbelievable .https://mobile.twitter.com/gavreilly/status/831521106221740033
@watersedge: indeed. Paul Williams was one of the tools used.
@Jane. I would go one further. Kenny, Fitzgerald and zappone to go. Just ask yourself where Michael Lowry is now.
Name a successful tribunal. Fodder for lawyers
Why is Enda Kenny wearing an earpiece in the Dail? Who is speaking into his ear? Garda HQ?
You maybe correct but I think they are enjoying having FG like a pig slowly cooking on a spit in fact I’m rather enjoying the party of law and order being dismantled
@Rory: McCracken Tribunal.
Yet another tribunal, which will cost god knows what and with no prosecutorial power
@RMcG: Exposure of the truth and the opprobrium of the public are powerful.
@Tony Daly: agreed but for all the money spent on tribunals in Ireland, I’d like to actually see some of them jailed and pay the price for their actions.
@RMcG: Ohhh, same here, I feel exactly the same but the forensic evidence for as criminal trial is long gone.
@RMcG:  that surely lands squarely on this government.. where is Moriarty? Whats taking DPP so long ?  Why no push from the government on that?
@LITTLEONE: DOB.
shinnerbot fake outrage is very amusing to say the least
@Littleone, why is there silence from everybody on Moriarty ? You’d expect it from the bought and paid for fg and ff but what about the rest ?
@GCLPhD:  there hasn’t been silence from everyone else. It was brought up time and again in the dail by TDs.. especially considering the statue of limitations was running down..
‘Smear campaign by Senior Gardai’ ….only!?!??!?!?!?!!?!?!?! There has obviously been political interference also with state agencies & possibly media also
@Nigel O’Neill: exactly.Who directed Callinan, O’Sullivan, HSE, TUSLA and parts of the media?
@RMcG: That’s because a Tribunal is largely about ascertaining the facts.  Using this system you can compel people to provide information.  You cannot have a prosecutorial Tribunal.  Without knowing the facts what would they be prosecuting and whom? Prosecutions follow evidence.  Based on the evidence you decide to prosecute someone or some group of someones assuming of course that you believe that the criminal law has actually been broken.  To do so you must believe you can prove your case beyond any reasonable doubt. At the moment we have facts all over the place and contradictions in evidence.  So a Tribunal is probably a necessary move if the terms of reference are not set so broadly that it carries on for the next ten years. A narrow and focused terms of reference and just get on with it.  There will be high fives in the Law Library tonight.Finally, prosecutions can only take place in the Criminal Courts and not before Tribunals.
@John R: an excellent explanation. Tribunals are inquisitorial processes.Criminal trials are adversarial highly specific.
@harry barry…if you are not outraged at this then you are a big part of the problem in this country which is too many idiots accept corruption by the political elite, some even defend it
@RMcG: Not only does it not have the power to prosecute, it taints any evidence presented to it by rendering it inadmissible in a proper criminal trial.
@Tom Sullivan: legally incorrect.
Turning 40 this year, should have another few decades left in me, I genuinely hope I live to see ff/fg being being a bad memory
This fake account is just expressing its tiredness on every comment. Surely the journal will delete this troll?
What powers will it have? Extremely limited…Kenny and Martin meeting this morning to cobble together some plan to keep the circus on the road..we are not going to get satisfaction from this public enquiry as it’s being controlled by a corrupt regime.
@Tony Skillington:  Commissioner O’Sullivan is already fully lawyered up and at the expense of the public purse. She has an unlimited budget.Sergeant McCabe a father of 5 will have to try to find the money unless the State will voluntarily fund him.
Gofund.?lots of people should support McCabe financially.
@Dave Sherman: thank you. Excellent idea. I would be willing to contribute.
@Tony Daly: Any solicitor or barrister worth their salt will be queuing up to represent McCabe. Hes in for an a all expenses paid, huge payout, seven figures!! This wont be stopped here othetwise. If Government/commisioner attempt to do so, this will go to Europe!
@Lord Clanricarde: His team legal is already selected but the legal costs are massive and need to be paid on a periodic basis.
@Tony Skillington: “What powers will it have? Extremely limited” It will have the same powers as the High Court?  Is that not sufficient?  But this is a fact finding exercise and not a criminal prosecution. And the Terms of Reference need to be narrowly construed and focused. So many Tribunals have run on for years because the Terms of Reference were too broad and changed once or more frequently during the course of the Tribunal.  So focus on what we all want to know and keep it at that.
@John R: Tribunals are invested with the powers of the High Cointreau under the 1921 Act, as amended.
@Tony Daly: High Court.
@Dave Sherman: Dave, you are a very decent person to make that suggestion, I will let him know,  the state will cover all of his costs.
So now a public tribunal forestalls any how of a criminal investigation, protects NOS in her roll as commissioner and puts a block on any further media or commentary on this issue. See ye all in 5/6 yet as and another €40 million later.
@M Bowe:  NOS would have been able to bobble any  criminal investigation anyway.This is the best of a bad outcome
“bobble” should be “nobble”.
While all the parties are getting on the bandwagon now, only for Mick Wallace and Claire Daly, Maurice McCabe would never have got a hearing. What a squalid incestuous cess pool of guards, press and politicians this country is.Even at this stage the govt has been dragged kicking and screaming just to the point of acknowledging that there is a problem, when the dogs in the street know this for over 10 years !
@Patrick James Walsh: That is more than fair comment.Wallace and Daly made targets of themselves.
I wonder what remit /power the public inquiry will have?
@Finn Bowe: Hopefully narrow and focused and along the lines sought by Sergeant McCabe
@Finn Bowe: The same remit the other tribunals/thinly-veiled coverups have had in the past.
any idea if Paul Williams ever issued an apology about his role in all this?
@Enda Kennny: He attacked Sergeant MCabe yesterday for not accepting the HSE apology.Paul Williams is still hard at work trying to find dirt on Sergeant McCabe, all of course motivated by pure public interest.
@Tony Daly: ha ha of course he is.
@Enda Kennny: Williams is after all de “tugs”
Will Paul Williams be doing an “special investigative report” on his role in this.. complete with sinister music every time his face is shown?
@James:  he wants to play a stool pigeon.
It’s not a matter of this government (and believe me I have absolutely no time for FG).  The public need to realise that it’s all a game of musical chairs in how this country is run, with the music supplied by an endless stream of soundbites attacking or defending this organisation, that policy, this institution, that minister, this TD, etc.  Since this keeps happening and the responsible keep weaseling out of it all, what does that say about the Irish public……we are the real asses.  At least the TD/Senator gombeens are committed full time to self-advancement and bringing about the kind of society, economy and environment they will prosper in.  We don’t get into 2nd gear.
@David A. Murray:  Spot on, at least half of the Irish public accept corruption are a normal and accepted part of being governed by the civil war parties. How else can you explain FF/FG still having 50% of the vote between them according to the latest polls. Shame on anybody who continues to Vote FF/FG, your grandchildren/great grandchildren will have to live with the consequences!
@Super Ted: FF and FG will look after you if you are inside the tent.
Don’t forget Liebour they are as much to blame the weasels.
@David A. Murray: People use the term corruption too loosely on this site.  So loosely it has become meaningless.  Everything is not about corruption.  A great deal is simply about the absence of values and ethics and organisations with cultures which are out of step with the times.  Such an absence can lead to behavior which is not grounded in any moral vision or values.  And such behavior is inevitably damaging to society.  An Garda Siochána has become such an organisation and there is now a need for a new organisation to be created which focuses entirely on good policing aligned with good values and open communication. The national security function should be separated from the policing function and put in a separate agency along with military intelligence.  The national security and policing mindsets are not good bed fellows.
@John R:  corruption has a wide and political sense where legal, political and government powers are used for ulterior and dishonest purposes. It is not just about bribery.
Tony,John,It really depends how you define corruption.Corruption in Ireland is more about favours and who you know than cash. It is embedded in all our public services.Who hasn’t heard a story about someone getting stopped after a few drinks, dropping the sargents name and getting off scott free. This is not only common but expected in rural ireland by those with the right contacts.The pub the guards drink in being allowed break closing time laws.Minor Crimes commited by someone from a “good family” going no further after a chat with the superintendant.The problem in this country is everyone wants strict rules which are applied rigidly except to themselves.Even ming got some penalty points quashed ffs.
Listening to that dirty excrement Kenny and his filthy lies is an abomination
@Blue MARIGOLD: it is disgusting, isn’t it?
Mick Wallace introducing some realism here. When you hear the litany of abuses of power within the system going back through the years it really is shocking.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: Yes, he is accurately setting the context and background.Only a foolish knave would deny the existence and reality of a smear campaign.
What will the terms of reference be? Are we only dealing with this latest scandal or will it also include Callinan and Shatter scandal too?
@Les Behan: Callinan and Shatter are part of this scandal
@Tony Daly:  I know Tony but knowing this shower as well as we do it’s not beyond the realms of possibility for Callinan/Shatter’s part to be excluded in the terms of reference. Fine Gael will claim that is a separate issue, when as you just pointed out it is not.
@Les Behan: It stated on Callinan’s watch and when the current Commissioner was his facilitator. Its all part of the same story of nearly 10 years of victimising a decent and noble fellow.
@Les Behan: I wish that you were wrong but sadly you are right to be sceptical.
@Les Behan: The surest way to achieve nothing is to extend the Tribunal of Enquiry to anything and everything. Shatter has been investigated every which way and has largely been exonerated. Focus the Tribunal on what we really wish to know or you’ll end up with another 10 years investigation costing a €100 million.
@John R: we need to know who was behind the smear campaign at a political level.
@John R: Its a catch  22.  Restrict the scope and the report is incomplete, don’t restrict the scope and the whole lot comes out.  It will last 50 years.    There should be no tribunal.     Just don’t vote any more
It seems the Soc Dems motion due to be voted on this week forced the government to pull the finger out and agree to a public inquiry. My main concerns now is the lack of a criminal inquiry and the fact that whoever planned this against McCabe has been given far too much time to hide their tracks. An independent anti corruption agency is badly needed to protect future and current whistleblowers
@Kevin Higgins: I agree that it was the Social Democrats in combination with Sergeant McCabe which brought this about.The opportunity for a criminal prosecution was lost a long time ago.We certainly need a permanently sitting anti corruption agency.   Until then, Sergeant McCabe is the best that we have but he needs a big legal team and they need to be paid as they go.
McCabe has had legal representation throughout this debacle. Unsure who is paying for it but if he decides to sue for damages we should all crowd fund that legal challenge.
@Kevin Higgins: It is the costs if representation before the Tribunal which will be prohibitively expensive and a possible deterrent.Contingency fees  can address the other aspects.
@Kevin Higgins: The trouble kevin is that we will also have to crowd fund the damages via taxation. Soo peeed off with the entire system at this stage, can nobody tell paddy the real story.
Why can’t Sergeant McCabe’s 6 questions be answered up front?
@Tony Daly: If they were answered at all then the prize would be a general election?
Corruption runs this country & The media have been sitting on this for several months.. it would make you wonder what else has gone uninvestigated & unreported
Public enquiries on this country have proved to be useless as nobody ever held accountable . It’s a criminal enquiry that should be instigated and the Garda Commissioner removed
Tribunal? Another 100 million to the solicitors for something we already know. It’ll be finished in 10 years when no one remembers it anymore. Whole thing kicked in to touch and no one held accountable.
@Phil Swan: This is a more focused Tribunal. If Governments answered questions truthfully and fully there would be no need for Tribunals.
It’s bad when I find myself agreeing with Mick Wallace but he’s right that a criminal investigation is required immediately with outside resources.
I realise that this tribunal will take a great deal of time to complete it’s work. but I have to wonder, what are the chances that the conclusions will be that mistakes were made, there were a number of errors, some systemic and procedural failures, but no evidence of actual wrongdoing by anyone! Followed by an undertaking and commitment that nothing like this will be allowed to happen ever again!
@David Van-Standen: that’s the usual format of Report but the issues are far too stark here.
Taoiseach having problems with truth issues.The man with the 2 pints needs to be found.
The champagne corks will be popping in Chambers.
The Taoiseach is truly doing his absolute level best to look after the Commissioner.
Taoiseach quoting vehement denials by some of the existence of a smear campaign.Very, very defensive comments from An Taoiseach.He is now doing his level best for Commissioner O’Sullivan.
3 things we love in ireland 1. Tayto 2. A good ham 3. A tribunal
Comment line closed because we’re afraid of Pat Hickey.
Nothing will change until we start to imprison government officials for the lies and corruptions that is at the root of our problems.
@Jim Buckley Barrett: 1937-1948 Fianna Fáil1948-1951 Fine Gael1951-1954 Fianna Fáil1954-1957 Fine Gael1957-1973 Fianna Fáil1973-1977 Fine Gael1977-1981 Fianna Fáil1981-1982 Fine Gael1982-Nov 1982 Fianna Fáil1982-1987 Fine Gael1987-1992 Fianna Fáil1992-1997 Fine Gael1997-2002 Fianna Fáil2002-2007 Fianna Fáil2007-2011 Fianna Fáil2011-2016 Fine Gael2016-DATE Fine GaelThis is what’s wrong with the country. Unless this changes nothing will.
@Dave Doyle: it means that in effect, there is no choice and therefore no real democracy.That is a rather vivid list.
Another stupid Claire Byrne poll.
Another tribunal, costing millions of tax payers money, some judge will decide there’s nothing untoward after happening, and if he finds it hakim quite sure his hands will be tied so noone will be held accountable for destroying this man and his families lives and reputation… Sgt McCabe and his family deserve better
@Carmel O Reilly: Yes they deserve far , far better but this is all that can be got.Vindication is on the way.
@Tony Daly: It is all we will get if we don’t demand more. Accepting a tribunal is tantamount to accepting the rank corruption and dishonesty at the heart of our government, police force and state agencies. A tribunal is not acceptable. Criminal prosecution is in order.
Enda Kenny is getting the answers through a hearing peace connected to “phone” maybe or some other device.
@Declan Carr: is the muppet a puppet or a dummy?
a quote from history for Enda:  “You have sat too long here for any good you have been doing. Depart, I say, and let us have done with you. In the name of God, go.”
At last!
@Tony Daly: A tribunal means that those who have engaged in malfeasance and slander will go unpunished, as any evidence they give at a tribunal is inadmissible in any subsequent criminal trial.
@Tom Sullivan:  but the evidence is identified and can be separately used if there is a criminal prosecution.
I ask people here to lobby their TDS to ensure that the legal costs of Sergeant McCabe are met up front.
Kenny and O’Sullivan have a lot of explaining to do.
Can someone ask the government especially journalists,  will they act different with this tribunal unlike Moriarty where we are still waiting for anything to happen .. the last thing the mc cabes need is DPP taking years on the findings of the tribunal and government being silent on the delay..
@LITTLEONE:   Well said but if Sergeant McCabe can at least expose the truth that will be something, however inadequate.
The demarcation between the public inquiry and the HIQA investigation may be extremely awkward to administer.
@Tony Daly: you are spamming hard shinnerbot
@harry barry: Thanks  DOB.
@Tony Daly: hilarious lol
Oh look, @harry barry is still channelling his innershit!
@harry barry: How dare you question the Shinners.  Don’t you know they are always right – even when it comes to supporting the killers of Jerry McCabe!These guys don’t get  irony!
It will cost millions and, well, you know the rest.
@Beachmaster: for Commmissioner Noirin O’Sullivan
Commissioner O’Sullivan will be helping the Tribunal with its inquiries.How cooperative will she be?
@Tony Daly: Probably very cooperative, given that she will be effectively handed immunity from prosecution.
Taoiseach, give Sergeant McCabe the benefit of the presumption of innocence.Don’t be always trying to protect Commissioner O’Sullivan. She can protect herself.
The heat’s been taken out of it.  Enda Kenny hitting Gerry Adams for 6 with the first ball put the opposition on the back foot right from the word go.A victory for the government…sadly.Check your blood pressures and relax for the evening.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: this is not about partisan politics. It’s about real issues.
good ole taxpayers to foot the bill yet again.
@Michael cunnane: Innocent Garda Sergeant gets opportunity publicly to vindicate his reputation after decade of vilification.
There can’t be any prosecutions now a tribunal is about to happen and another corrupt official gets to walk away with a gold plated pension.
@Stephen murphy: the evidence was disposed of anyway.
Enda lambasting Deputy Adams.Warming up nicely now.Someone’s gonna get a red card before long.
Enda Kenny has only agreed  “in principle” to the establishment of a Tribunal under the 1921 Act
Stop giving guard’s whistles
Why didn’t McCabe sue his accuser in the guards when the accusation was declared false. Why the state now. There is so much of this that does not add up.
@Heidi3:  blind accusations presented by unnamed persons.
@Tony Daly: I think the claim was not made anonymously.
@Heidi3: it was not revealed as to detail, source or specifics to Sergeant McCabe. He was the one kept in the dark. This made it so insidious and Kafkaesque.
Easy way out. Let’s have a tribunal and the taxpayer will front the bill. Shower of shits in the Dail
Public inquiry or General Election not much choice there either way a couple of heads will be served up!!!
‘set up in Cabinet’s wisdom’ that gave me a laugh
Hopefully the Taoiseach’s comments are not announcing a white wash Tribunal
Will the Commissioner be invoking the privilege against self-incrimination on the more difficult issues?
None one wants a repetition of the character assassination attempt on the instructions of the Commissioner before the O’Higgins Commission. That was truly nasty and beneath contempt.
In an inquisitorial/ accusatorial process such as that of a Tribunal of Inqury, there is no presumption of innocence. It is fact finding, not adjudicative.
Yesssssssssss….a tribunal
This is totally predictable and unacceptable. Take this whole shady affair to the streets this needs a protest.
I just watched Vincent Browne’s monday night show.  Mick Clifford (usually a top investigative journalist) said he believed the issue of the cabinet ministers/Taoiseach not issuing consistent statements about who knew what, when and from who………was a distraction from the core issue(s).  Apparently a large number of viewers tweeted their agreement with Clifford.  Here’s a scenario for you.  You are a Garda/whistleblower who has a faked child sexual abuse accusation on Tulsa’s records.  Tulsa is accountable to Zappone/The Cabinet/Kenny.  The Garda are responsible to Fitzgerald/The Cabinet/Kenny.  You (as this Garda) are clearly going to hope that the relevant ministers/Taoiseach are going to protect you when they are made aware of what is going on……or am I crazy?  So if they can’t agree about who said what to who and when…..are they part of the conspiracy or are they incompetent and unfit to offer the agree whistle-blower protection you need?  How do you feel as this Garda whistle-blower?  This is just as important as any other aspect of what is going on……..what did the Government know and what did they do or fail to do.
@David A. Murray: You misconstrue the position I think.  Tusla are only accountable to Minister Zappone in certain respects.  They are an independent body in law and for good reason.  Similar with AGS. Entirely independent in law but the Minister for Justice is the vehicle by which they are accountable to the Oireachtas in certain respects.  But on a day to day basis both Tusla and AGS run themselves and so they should.  There is no reason at all why Government would have known or been told anything about allegations of abuse by Sgt McCabe especially once the people in Tusla realised they were unfounded. Abuse allegations flow daily into Tusla and are dealt with accordingly. The problem here is organisational it seems to me.  Everything is not the fault of a Minister.  The least interesting thing is what Ministers knew.  The key issue is how could things have possibly got this bad in AGS and what do we do?  I honestly think we need to go beyond thought of reform and think far more radically.  This is just the latest in a long line of shocking Garda controversies.  Rather than focus on political personalities and conspiracy theories I think we need to focus on the more prosaic truth which actually is far more shocking and suggests a far more radical course of action is now necessary.
@John R: this goes beyond AGS. This extends to HSE and Tusla as well as certain persons in the media. This multifaceted scheme involved political influence and direction.We have political policing in Ireland.We have political health in Ireland.TUSLA may be theoretically and legally independent but it needs funding and resources. That’s the political dimension.This scandal did not stop and start with An Garda Siochana.The political dimension is the most sinister and subtle.Enda Kenny is making a great effort to protect the Commissioner.
@David A. Murray: The disagreement over  who said what to who and when is part of a smokescreen. It is designed to confuse and dissuade the confused from taking any further interest in the story.
Pull the plug, we need a proper clear out. Get ends the hell out and go to an election
I noticed that on nine news there was one individual out of the lot featured who had a shred of empathy for McCabes and wasn’t just covering heir tracks – Claire Daly and they didn’t even give her a clip they just showed her shaking her head. Gov representatives were again unchallenged defending what has happened. When are people going to wake up?? This is a fascist state.
Enda kenny spouts so much shite , he can’t keep up with his own lies.
Alledged what a word, everyone now can see that it was a smear…
Why the surprise. One of the first Yards Commissioner s fought for Franco’s “Hispanic Supercaste” which set sail from  Galway in November 1936 on board a German ship. On 19 February 1937 in their first action they fired on troops on their own side killing 13 and losing one of their company and then surprise surprise the Yards Commissioner s adjudant captain Gunning deserts the brigade stealing all the men’s wages and passports under his command.  This is classic “Gunningism” within the force and is quite normal in fact it is tradition.Don’t know what all the fuss is about.
If electorate accepts a tribunal, they have been hoodwinked once again. A tribunal is a mechanism for getting evidence out in public so that it can rendered inadmissible in any future criminal trials. The Tribunals  of  Inquiry  Acts ensure that a statement  or  admission  made by a person before a Tribunal “shall not be admissible in evidence in any criminal proceedings  against  him”   unless  those  proceedings  are  for  an  offence  committed  against the Tribunal.
The time being wasted here is a disgrace.Apologize and move on. Enda should adopt a no nonsense attitude to things and get back to work.
@Robert Deane: When has Chairman Mayo ever shown a no-nonsense attitude to anything?
@Robert Deane: why are you being an apologist for our pal who is unfit to be Taoiseach as it is?
Rightly so. Those that want this behind closed doors and in private why?? We have had those and nothing happens .. Time and again.. it’s what this man and his family deserve after what this state has put them through…
Give them the answers they deserve .. if government and gardai have nothing to hide then answer the questions.The McCabes call for a number of questions to be answered in the course of a public inquiry.They include if senior gardaí were formally or informally notified of the alleged sexual abuse case against McCabe, which gardaí were involved in the claim, and why McCabe was not informed of these allegations in 2013.The pair add:We are entitled to know and to be informed by members of Dáil Éireann acting on our behalf and on behalf of all citizens concerned with the truth of these matters, whether the present or former members of the government were briefed formally or informally of the making of such allegations at any time by An Garda Síochana, or the Commissioner of An Garda Síochana at any time since August 2013.
where are McCabes, colleagues on this why are they not speaking out ? are they being threatened it’s hard to imagine that not one garda has come to stand with this man and by not doing so makes them just as guilty as their evil masters.
Full Statement for anyone that wants to read it from the MC cabes.https://t.co/0UtTiKWcEA
@LITTLEONE:  Thank you LITTLEONE.  You have been stalwart and persistent in your efforts to expose all of this.
@Tony Daly:  how could anyone not be moved by what this man and his family have been put through by this state for just being honest .. it has sickened me to think that people have stooped as low as they did in this whole shameful situation..  I applaud the mc cabes for their honest and brave statement today and I  urge everyone to read it .. I hope they get what they deserve justice and truthful answers.
@LITTLEONE: you say that from the heart.
@Martin Ryan: it does seem odd..and all the more reason for no more private enquiries. There’s either large scale corruption or large scale intimidation …or both
@EvieXVI: sadly, it is both.
@littlebone. I agree with you rarely but you are spot on with this
Won’t make any difference LITTLEONE…terms of reference will be so narrow it’ll run down a blind alley.
@Tony Skillington: I don’t think,that the lid can be kept on this any longer. Sergeant McCabe’s position is strong enough to ensure that the Terms if Reference are broad enough.The politicians and the Commissioner are now fighting a losing battle.
@Tony Daly…I agree but look who’s setting it up? Their political skins above all other things and at all costs. However any fudging will be seen straight away..
Finally. Thank you tony daly and little one for all ur hard work pressing this. It is right.
@Tony Daly, we can only hope. There is a huge groundswell of support for Maurice McCabe and it is imperative that this support is evident. The powers that be need to see that so many of us are disgusted and dismayed by what has been done to him. They MUST understand that we will not stand idly by while they try to destroy a man just doing his job. And they must get a clear message that we will not tolerate collusion and corruption from our elected (and in the case of Noirin appointed) officials.
@Martin Ryan, you are right, normally they should be outspoken. But I believe they are scared and intimidated and rightly so. Maurice McCabe is a Sergeant and look what Garda management have done to him!..What would they be capable of doing to other Gardai, especially lower rank or inexperienced!!
Rank and file: time to stand up for what’s right. The vast majority of gardai are decent people but what happened is just wrong both morally and legally. Let’s change things. Time for gardai not to be afraid, or intimidated by a culture of corruption. New leadership is required to change the culture and restore respect in our Gardai who in my view do a great job.
As an aside, is Tusla going to conduct a review of all their documents/records now in case everything is full of rubbish? Nevermind HSE policy on what programs their employees/consultants can use, obviously can’t be trusted with microsoft word. There needs to be a bespoke program that forces proper practice, eg: Ability to pull two documents up side by side, with key data elements very visible/linked. Users has to type important info, hair brained copying & pasting is for college projects.
@Martin Ryan: my understanding is that the rank and file actually consider McCabe to be a pariah, that he has put the eye on them and they;ve no time for him. The were all ready and happy to believe the child abuse story going around the last couple of years.But let’s not shoo the foot soldiers, the force is fuched because of the cute hoors at the top running their own empires, always has been and it’s near impossible to change. These bhoys will circle the wagons again,
@LITTLEONE Appreciate all your heartfelt comments on this scandal. Clearly, you are a person with knowledge in this area but doesn’t it show everything that is wrong with us that you have to shelter behind a pseudonym. This is not a criticism of you, rather of our rotten establishment.
These are Sergeant McCabes QuestionsSimple QuestionsWe now want to have simple answers to the following questions:Did the requested meeting or phone conversation with Supt. Cunningham as sought by the HSE in August 2013 take place?• Who was/were the Gardai who made/received phone calls to/from the HSE counsellor concerning the false rape offence allegation?• Who interviewed the alleged victim in respect of that allegation in May 2014 as claimed by her solicitor?• Was any of the foregoing Garda activity reported or recorded within An Garda Siochana?• Was any of the foregoing Garda activity notified formally or informally to senior Gardai at Commissioner level, and if not why not?• Was any decision made not to inform Maurice of the making of the 2013 allegation, and if so why and by whom?These are simple factual questions to which we, and the Irish public, and their representatives in Dail Eireann are entitled to simple factual answers now.These are also questions to which the Minister for Justice (under section 40 of the Garda Siochana Act, 2005), the Minister for Children (under section 69 of the Childcare Act 1991) and the Minister for Health (under section 10 of the Health Act 2004) are entitled to answers from the Commissioner, Tusla and the HSE.Given that false allegations of sexual abuse made against Maurice were given wide currency by being leaked to the media and that they were discussed in Dail Eireann on 19th June 2014, we are entitled to know and to be informed by members of Dail Eireann acting on our behalf and on behalf of all citizens concerned with the truth of these matters, whether the present or former members of the Government (including the Taoiseach, the persons acting as Minister for Justice and the Minister for Children since 2013, or the Department of Justice) were briefed formally or informally of the making of such allegations at any time by the Garda Siochana, or by the Commissioner for the time being of An Garda Siochana at any time since August 2013.These are all matter which can be answered without any public inquiry under statute. The answers, if truthfully given now, would not prejudice any later inquiry and could well assist such an inquiry.We know that the present Commissioner of An Garda Siochana has claimed in public to be supportive of us while seeking ih private to discredit Maurice McCabe before the O’Higgins Commission.We have witnessed with growing disbelief her denials of involvement in discrediting Maurice. If the foregoing questions are answered truthfully and in public now, the public will be in a position to know who to believe.
Maurice McCabe should be allowed select the Terms of Reference and the Arena where it is to take place. That is the very, very least he is owed.https://trickstersworld.com/2017/02/13/disgustingly-decent/
@Tony Ornery G: the danger in that is that the truth might emerge.
The McCabes have nothing to hide so the only ones to gain from a private enquiry are the politicians and the Garda Commissioner so there you have it, it has to be a public enquiry, it’s the least the McCabes and the people of this country are entitled to. I won’t hold  my breath though!
Nobody was told, no-one knew anything before Primetime.Lies will be exposed.
@Ivorpabst: I knew about the details of the allegations almost 3 months before Prime Time  I’m not well connected.
Shine the cold clear light of day on this affair, and as soon as possible. The McCabes deserve no less. And a whole lot more besides.
This article completely blows the previous article out of the water. The Goverment Spinsters are on overtime here. Give The McCabes what they ask for. They have had their name dragged through the mud in public and deserve to the truth about the lies made against them heard in public if they so feel. While your at it I think an election should be declared a.s.a.p..
Vincent Brown & Mick Clifford spoke about this about three weeks ago. & lots of journalist were informed ( or I should say misinformed) about these horrendous accusations!
@Colette Kearns: I knew about the specufuc accusations three months ago.
And lets march in support of those wishes. Time for the moral majority to be heard.
A corrupt, malign, vicious and nasty Givernment needs to be held to account.
That covers pretty much every government since the foundation of the state
Enda Kenny needs a public grilling about his very specufuc role in all of this.
@Tony Daly: Ah in fairness I don;t believe the public should be exposed to that useless person any longer.
@Kerry Blake: after his ignominious departure. He needs to be exposed. What he directed was repulsive and disgusting.
We know what has happened, it is now about public examination and public acknowledgement.The Commissioner can’t be relied upon to tell the truth, even under oath.The law prints of Enda Kenny are all over the efforts to discredit Sergeant McCabe.Forget about Zappone. She is a dustraction and small fry.
They should be in the criminal court.
@Emmet O’Keeffe: absolutely right.
FG will throw Ends under the bus now. New leader of FG soon .
The man deserves a public inquiry. It is the very least that could be done to try and redress the damage and needless pain and trauma caused him by liars, shysters and power junkies.Will it happen, not likely.The best thing then is that FF mans up and pulls the plug on this totally corrupt minority FG government.Some in FF don’t feel like playing ball with Mehole, Noirin isn’t playing ball, she’s digging her high heels in, and why not, why should anybody play the patsy so Enda and Co. get off scot free.
This raises questions about Simon Harris’s role on this whole farce as he was contacted by Lorraine McCabe on the 18th of last month. Did he know about Tusla’s involvement there and then? Did Harris inform Kenny & Fitzgerald straightaway about the phone call from Mrs McCabe? If so, was he instructed on how to deal with the matter of Tusla? Then why did he palm the couple off to meet Zappone a week later instead?
Nothing less than he is owed.
And we are not yet at the point of full exposure.The fish rots from the head.
A private inquiry would be used to damage the McCabes. Their only protection is a public inquiry.
Kenny and O’Sullivan are the primary culprits.
This man is a patriot and it is disgusting what the powers that be have done. #nationalhero
@Stuart Parkinson:ah here, let’s not get carried away. He didn’t save a dying person or jump in front of a bullet. He didn’t whistle blow about the dysfunction that is management or the shocking lack of manpower and resources.He went after tickets and in doing so has unfairly labeled a number of people
@Karl Carroll:  he shows Guards like you to have no moral fibre or integrity. You are part of the campaign against Sergeant McCabe.
He has in his endeavour, exposed a whole filty pile of steaming crap that is the “bigger picture” of our government and its “public services” . No matter what the initial charge / accusation was, it has shown up and uncovered the bigger ses pit that lies beneath the surface.
The public are with you Mr McCabe.
Of course, the story that is never referred to is Enda Kenny’s pulling of the strings to do down Sergeant McCabe
If no public inquiry, we take to the streets.
@Pádraig Ó Braonáin:  I think that has to be the next move.The Social,Democrats have proposed a Motion for a Public Inquiry. If it is not passed, then popular support has to be expressed.
O’Higgins was used to try to massacre the McCabes.
I listened to the Sunday interview with Enda Kenny.  Kenny was lying.
The cock has crowed three times now govnmtl and NOS
Political policing produces political corruption and has infected An Garda Siochana.
Of course, neither Kenny nor O’Sullivan can afford a public inquiry.
There will be no truth unless or until Kenny and O’Sullivan are permanently gone.
There’s a law for everyone but the Guards are a law unto themselves!
@Buaman: considering he is a garda, that’s a silly statement.
Hope this family get answers!  Keep fighting
The Social Democrats have proposed a Motion for a Public Inquiry.
Its the least they deserve and they and we certainly dont deserve the self serving politicians playing political games and displaying no sensitivity
The word tusla says it all. No gov ministers needs any additional info.there is no need for zappone to go. It is back to NOS and FF
Ross and his gang very quiet
Why are the citizen’s surprised at the latest revelation’s about the state apparatus, it has been going on since the state was founded.
My boss always told me to be truthful in work. He said if you tell lies they might just come back and haunt you. I believe and respect Garda McCabe and think of him as a patriotic Irish man.
There is already legislation in place to compel Gardai of any rank to answer the six simple questions. It could be done tomorrow. Lets see what political appetite there is to actually provide justice for the McCabes apart from electioneering soundbites
@The Clarifier: the 6 questions are fair and can be answered but those who can and should answer them will run for cover.
The word truth and enda Kenny should never appear together ..
@Alan Flood: yes, they are mutually exclusive.
Everything that went wrong can be traced back to political policing, the interference of party politics and political corruption in fair, impartial and objective policing.
And there should be a criminal inquiry into this government also.
@@mdmak33: the Governmenthas been actively complicit in the efforts of Commissioner O’Sullivan to destroy Sergeant McCabe.
When lady justice takes her blindfold off it is very difficult to replace it.This matter needs to be brought before the Hague courts and the Irish are once again nationless and clearly incapable of  functioning as an independent country.
@Mike Holmes: Thats it,  we start by refusing to vote
I dont understand why Irish people just accept all of this?You can start a petition @ gov.ie to call on the government to request the commission to stand down, Im sure you’d have 200,000+ signatures in a few days.You could call for a march for McCabe and use real protest for a good reason, to stand behind the McCabe family and march on Leinster house,Something. Anything. I’m sick and tired of a country ran by a small group for a small group. Only the Irish can change that! and I think someone needs to start that, not AAA/PBP or SF, but ordinary people without a shaggin political agenda
In Ireland Commissions of Inquiry and Public Inquiries appear only to expose previously known facts while enriching the Legal Profession. Because of the legal make up of these,  unknown but pertinent facts are redacted and no legal criminal proceedings can be taken against individuals found to have broken the law. The Commissions are in reality neutered before they even begin.I can fully understand why the Mc Cabe family just want certain questions asked directly and answered immediately instead of waiting a long period for the results of these useless Inquiries.
You want the truth? You can’t handle the truth
Lies lies cover-ups they’re all the same. What can we do. Very little it seems. Sad country now we live in now. No decency no example no leadership no hope. We deserve better than these despots who are now in charge.
Look.  There are serious criminal offences evident against several senior Gardai.  The correct way it to investigate and that means either interviewing them and possibly arresting them for questioning.   However, as they are senior Gardai they can countermand any investigation.    If there was a proper investigation,  I believe there would be convictions and jail sentences imposed.  The only way to do it is appoint 3 foreign senior investigators from say   1 the USA, I Britain and One for  say Canada.   Give them a team of 10  Garda detectives and the power to arrest and detain suspects.A special station would need to be opened for them
This was licked from the ground in America where Francis Fitzgerald fell in love with Hillary Clinton.   This is the exact same modus operandi.  Julian Assange was accused of sexual assault by a mysterious Swedish woman.  Its the oldest trick in the book.TUSLA were told to falsify records to frame McCabe.
how about a blue flu response from the rank and file in support of Maurice McCabe   yea right I didn’t think so
Humpty Dumpty Noirin, a public enquiry means she is a gonner so she either goes of Enda will push her like he did her partner ion crime Callanan, Kenny has stood by the people in a case I know of and where he personally intervened and faced down a fraternity with party connections, saving the tax payer €1.5m.What went on here is a surprise to anyone but not so great to those who know how bad the bad Garda can be.  They can also be quiet shallow, amateurish and plain stupid –  I had  Supt tell me that I had to put it in writing that the perpetrator of crime was innocent before he would investigate.  Then there was the pair of plain clothes officers who door-stepped people on behalf of the paedophile ring financiers in the ex Judge Curtin case.  So if we start talking about other agencies, then The Irish Law Society is right up there.  How they got a child safety charity to frame a man is beyond beyond and crooked solicitors would be coaching them along the way, as was the case when the Church was advised to brush abuse under the carpet for decades.Good will come of this if we clear then decks and Frances Fitzgerald is hanging onto Noirin’s knicker elastic – once that rips then they all go together.  Both of them said that ‘if they knew of crime they would act” – and we all now know that it is not true.  What is a worry though is why, as on the face of it you would be thinking that they are decent enough.  A plain clothes female officer was foremost in the paedophile door-stepping while the Chief Supt Commissioner and Minister were all women.  Now it still shouldn’t happen if it was all men but part of you has to be thinking that women would have reacted, instead of participating.  WHAT IS BEHIND IT?, WHY WOULD THEY RISK EVERYTHING TO HELP EARN A FEW BOB FOR AN IMPOVERISHED PAGAN THAT WAS THE SOLICITOR IN QUESTION.
Sergeant McCabes questions are simple and could be answered.Simple QuestionsWe now want to have simple answers to the following questions:Did the requested meeting or phone conversation with Supt. Cunningham as sought by the HSE in August 2013 take place?• Who was/were the Gardai who made/received phone calls to/from the HSE counsellor concerning the false rape offence allegation?• Who interviewed the alleged victim in respect of that allegation in May 2014 as claimed by her solicitor?• Was any of the foregoing Garda activity reported or recorded within An Garda Siochana?• Was any of the foregoing Garda activity notified formally or informally to senior Gardai at Commissioner level, and if not why not?• Was any decision made not to inform Maurice of the making of the 2013 allegation, and if so why and by whom?These are simple factual questions to which we, and the Irish public, and their representatives in Dail Eireann are entitled to simple factual answers now.These are also questions to which the Minister for Justice (under section 40 of the Garda Siochana Act, 2005), the Minister for Children (under section 69 of the Childcare Act 1991) and the Minister for Health (under section 10 of the Health Act 2004) are entitled to answers from the Commissioner, Tusla and the HSE.Given that false allegations of sexual abuse made against Maurice were given wide currency by being leaked to the media and that they were discussed in Dail Eireann on 19th June 2014, we are entitled to know and to be informed by members of Dail Eireann acting on our behalf and on behalf of all citizens concerned with the truth of these matters, whether the present or former members of the Government (including the Taoiseach, the persons acting as Minister for Justice and the Minister for Children since 2013, or the Department of Justice) were briefed formally or informally of the making of such allegations at any time by the Garda Siochana, or by the Commissioner for the time being of An Garda Siochana at any time since August 2013.These are all matter which can be answered without any public inquiry under statute. The answers, if truthfully given now, would not prejudice any later inquiry and could well assist such an inquiry.We know that the present Commissioner of An Garda Siochana has claimed in public to be supportive of us while seeking ih private to discredit Maurice McCabe before the O’Higgins Commission.We have witnessed with growing disbelief her denials of involvement in discrediting Maurice. If the foregoing questions are answered truthfully and in public now, the public will be in a position to know who to believe.
‘We are entitled to the truth today’: Kenny to discuss McCabe public inquiry with Micheál Martin.For support as this could bring down the government and it would be about time if it did, everyone involved should resign NOW.
If you watch this closely there is a fact that can’t be denied.  It all harks back to Cavan/Monaghan Garda Division.   Who was pulling the strings there?    We don’t hear anything from Mayo or Kerry.    Its all Cavan/Monaghan,  Ha ?   right or wrong?
There seems to be a baying mob posting on this story.Let all the facts be tested before the hanging.
@Each Way Thief: the facts are obvious. The reality that Sergeant McCabe’s character was unjustly taken is established. It is obvious that the Commissioner is telling lies. It is obvious that senior FG politicians are trying to cover this up. It is obvious that the purpose of the Commission of Investigation was to try to hush this up.Sergeant McCabe did nkt get due process, his attackers deserve nothing.
What about the girl who made the complaint?You don’t seem to refer to her?
@Each Way Thief: She said she never made the complaint in the first place. All the facts??? Maybe having a Gard spend 3 years waiting for the truth and facts to be actually heard while his family suffers? are you for real?Im confident enough that you have an agenda here because when it quacks like a duck, looks like a duck and walks like a duck and you call it a chicken, theres a reason…. and thats what you are at here.
I think you’ve got that wrong.
@Each Way Thief:Ok, so Tusla apologies because? Oh, its because the girl in question is upholding her statement is it and they are trolling the mccabes? Are you for real?Go troll somewhere else.
@Each Way Thief: Sgt Mc Cabe has already been hung drawn and quartered, by his `so called`, colleagues.
We Stand With Maurice McCabe 100%
Light has come to mankind where riches blessing divine health and favour has been released unto cleanse people. Once stumbling block is cleansed from the bearer it begins to excel to the fullest. A magnificent stool where power and protection comes and spell is cast to turn your sorrow to joy, I welcome you to the cleansing power and receive all you have lost and welcome fortune. for cleansing power contactgrailhilltent@gmail.com
Light has come to mankind where riches blessing divine health and favour has been released unto cleanse people. Once stumbling block is cleansed from the bearer it begins to excel to the fullest. A magnificent stool where power and protection comes and spell is cast to turn your sorrow to joy, I welcome you to the cleansing power and receive all you have lost and welcome fortune
Quick. Deflect. Create a scandal that will take the public’s mind off 3 state agencies’ colluding to create a smear campaign.
@Anne Marie Devlin: Don’t worry, everything is bon! They we’re acting in a ‘personal’ capacity.
Don’t panic Captain Mannering said Private Leo !!!
Email crisisHousing crisisRental crisisDebt crisisPolicing crisisHealth crisisTransport crisisTusla crisisWhistleblower crisisDrugs crisisHomelessness crisisImmigrant crisisInsurance crisisEnvironmental crisisFlooding crisisRural emptying crisisBrexit crisisRural broadband crisisPlease feel free to add the ones that I missed……..
@Cram Wood: Truthfulness crisis!
@Cram Wood: Where is the McCabe crisis?
Here’s a question… Where the hell is Enda Kenny? What’s he doing? What plans has he got for the country? He does nothing as far as I can tell. He’s our equivalent of Obama/Trump, Merkel, Theresa May, Hollande etc but he hasn’t a clue how to show any leadership whatsoever so why is he still there? It baffles me how he even got there other than a half asleep electorate.
His popularity went up in the poll that was just published!!!! Up!!!!
Actually have you not noticed the economy improve on his watch? I have
@Eye_c_u: You are right but why couldn’t they transfer that to votes in the last GE ?
Of course they did.  Of course they would say,  no sensitive information sent. Do I believe them . No.
Nor should you: using personal email is universal practice in governments worldwide, it’s a mechanism for discussing issues without those discussions being accessed through FOI
And its illegal in mostcountrries for that reason….just ask hillary
@LITTLEONE: The emails could have been about McCabe and what happened him?
@DH yes but that’s almost impossible to prove because the emails are private which is why they’re used in the first place.
Yeah.  The Russkies really care about the information being sent by ministers.All the emails are saying at the moment is “Jaysus Francis, we’re fukced”
I’d say the Americans would like to know just for the sake of it
I have a work email and a personal email. I never use one for the other. Never.
This is just another example of poor governance in the government and civil service as a whole.
This a Major security crisis ok! Enda using his private email server. “Hello Eileen,put the spuds on,I’ll be home in half an hour,and hey,can I have jelly and ice-cream for dessert? Be the holy shmokes this is serious!
There needs to be an external criminal investigation into kenny. He’s involved in lots of controversies that have been shoved under the carpet by biased political enquiries.
in all photos of Enda it looks like the lights are on but no ones home
@Enda Kennny: That is because the Sun has set below his belt lol.
Hope they weren’t using that wiffy thing…
Lock him up lock him up lock him up
With the greatest of respect and as a security professional. I am sure the “government” security of operating email would not match the two factor mobile phone authentication of the likes of gmail. This tends to be a witch hunt everyones passwords are online, even the journals!
But who is to say what is sensitive or not, them? I don’t think so?
Criminal investigation is needed..
Taoiseach claims he didn’t know.Justice minister claims she didn’t know.Garda commissioner claims she didn’t know.Tusla throws apology in neighbours porch.HSE doesn’t apologise privately but public.Unbelievable and downright shameful.. they are all either lying or incompetent at the highest level because it has to be one or the other..
@LITTLEONE: What’s the penalty for threatening politicians?http://blog.hereshow.ie/2017/02/callinan-was-not-smearing-mccabe-in-that-car-park-he-was-threatening-mcguinness/
@LITTLEONE: The are all lieing. This is a systematic attack on one of this countries not only law abiding but law inforcing citizens by the government. People are so outraged by this Kenny and Co will all try throw one another under a bus. Oh the media are no saints here either. Paul Williams for one showed he is just as bad as the people he writes about.
As the great George Carlin said about politicians, Garbage in, Garbage out.
Oh great someone is quoting George Carlin.
@John Smith: anyone think that Kenny is not lying through his teeth?
Can you just imagine a Cabinet Minister telling the Taoiseach they’re going to meet Sergeant Maurice McCabe, who regardless of what way you may view this debacle, is one of the most contentious figures in Irish society right now.They’d be asked if they’re out of their f***ing mind, there is no such thing as private capacity for such meetings, especially under such circumstances. Yet this is the best excuse Enda can come up with. And then he has the temerity to say he won’t endorse a criminal enquiry as there’s no evidence of criminality… What…???Now I’m no Sherlock Holmes however it seems to me if the ‘authorities’ refuse to authorise an investigation and insist there’s no evidence of wrongdoing they’ll never find any, which appears to be their intention…
@Jed I. Knight: yes, I heard  that reference by Kenny that there has to be evidence of criminality first. That was a red flag on a lie.Kenny was challenging. Prove it. Only if or when it is proven, will there be a criminal investigation.This is one of the 5 factors which persuade me that Kenny was  involved in the campaign to discredit Sergeant McCabe .
@LITTLEONE: “Unbelievable and downright shameful.. they are all either lying or incompetent at the highest level because it has to be one or the other.”Both lying AND incompetence.
@LITTLEONE: Jesus Christ. His cabinet seem to be getting paid an awful lot of money for acting in ‘private’ and ‘personal’ capacities.
@LITTLEONE: The Moriarity Tribunal opened the way to a criminal investigation into a certain person. And we know what happened to that.
Enda keeping his head below the firing line…nor getting involved less he gets shoite stuck to him…the leader of this country he simply is not. FG just seem eternally happy to let these fiascos run on and on…FF supporting g them through it all…
@Tony Skillington: he is not fit to be Taoiseach.
It’s all deny, deny, deny and “I know nothing” “wasn’t me” “look over there it was them, they did it”. It’s all bs of course, they wanted this man’s reputation dragged through the mud. Absolutely disgusting, and Kenny’s a weasel.
@molly coddled: a dangerous weasel when allowed out, how much did him and noonan cost us taxpayers? paddy partied? followed by a state of the nation address, sums the man up.if kenny was anyway honest he would have had mccabes back
The word “Honest” and “kenny” in the same sentence is just wrong,the weakest slyest Taoiseach we’ve ever had will crawl away until he thinks it’s safe to emerge.People power is the only way to get him out of our Dail,otherwise the circle continues and backs continue to be scratched.Corruption is a byword for Kenny at this stage.
Ciaran, honesty is not a desired requisite for a politician, in fact a distinct lack of it is the norm I’m afraid. Kenny, Fitzgerald Zappone all need to go, and as many have stated already that heads need to roll.
@Tony Daly: It’s the chicken and the egg, Kenny is basically saying until anyone can prove criminality there will be no investigation – and without an investigation there can be no definitive proof of criminality.Behind the scenes you can be certain he’ll be warning everyone to keep their mouths shut until this boils over, he hopes.
@Jed I. Knight: right on the nail. Solience is now imposed.
@LITTLEONE: Exactly and either way they are unfit for office….its time we took to the streets on this one im afraid.
Incompetence, semantics and no accountability to us, the electorate, yet again. Get the snouts out of the trough and manage this issue that is just about out of control at this stage. I’m sharpening my pencil to vote all these clowns out!
FF and Mehole have again shown their true colours…tether than bringing down FG the remain complicit in the corruption surrounding this…anything to stay in power by the back door…FF and FG are parasites
At least now FF have shown their card… They agree and back 100% the government. They agree and believe everything they say… They obviously agree with the behaviour that has gone on and they are just going to sit this out.Fianna Fáil to abstain from vote of no confidence in Government.Because by abstaining your doing nothing….
This is a mistake by FF. I throught with the latest poll they’d chance their arm.
@jane: No its not. Not many would believe they are clean here.
Quote “Earlier Micheal Martin told RTÉ that the party’s spokesman on justice Jim O’Callaghan met with Frances Fitzgerald last Wednesday evening to discuss the Charleton Commission of Investigation and raised the Tusla story.”So even after Frances Fitzgerald went on national television today on the week in politics and lied through her teeth, they are still going to back her and the government? This is just farcical.
As I said who ever abstains is a traitor to the people.
FF again showing their true colours. FG incompetent. SF sniping from the sidelines. Nothing ever changes
@lavbeer:  it may not stand up in a Court of Law but I have no doubt that Kenny was fully implicated in the doing down of Sergeant McCabe and the subsequent efforts to keep the lid of the sandal. I have no doubt that the Taoiseach and Minister for Justice  are fundamentally dishonest.Micheal Martin and FF know full well that Kenny’s gang are corrupt and malevolent but fir Martin, this is not about standards or morality or decency, it is about maximising power at the expense of principle.Some things are fundamentally wrong. Abstaining is moral weakness and political cowardice.
@Bobby Phelan:  actually, you are right. This is dishonouring the duty  to the electorate.Truly, corruption and malfeasance now rule in Ireland. FF is fully complicit.A plague on all their houses.
Earlier today.The Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin has disputed a claim by the Minister for Justice Frances Fitzgerald that she had no knowledge of a file by Tusla containing false allegations of child sex abuse against the whistleblower Sergeant Maurice McCabe until she watched revelations about the file on RTÉ’s Prime Time programme on Thursday night.However speaking this afternoon in Cork, Mr Martin said his party’s justice spokesman Jim O’Callaghan had met Ms Fitzgerald on Wednesday evening to broaden the terms of reference of the Charleton Commission of Investigation to include the Tusla file.Mr Martin said at that stage Fianna Fáil had been alerted to the existence of the Tusla file and he had spoken to Sgt McCabe on Wednesday in relation to it.He said he was anxious that the terms of reference would cover the Tusla file, and Mr O’Callaghan had met Ms Fitzgerald and alerted her to its existence and the need to cover it in the terms of reference.So what really is going on ? Why and who is covering for who. Why one minute is Martin disputing what Francis Fitzgerald said on national television and then few hours later going to help her stay in her job.https://www.google.ie/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.rte.ie/news/2017/0212/852058-kenny-fitzgerald-mccabe/&ved=0ahUKEwjirLytmovSAhWJCsAKHSzRC7sQqOcBCDUwAg&usg=AFQjCNHy4-GtwjgOjHO8NmIeuwiv4PHpsg&sig2=6n9qTTPMPcHmEhgDexu3SQIt’s ridiculous at this stage.
@Tony Daly:  Michael also knows that his lot are the same. Abstaining is a decision to aid FF. Nothing more and nothing less. Morality doesn’t even come into this.
@LITTLEONE: FG and FF , both ends of the same turd.
@Littleone, who is telling lies? Is it O’Callaghan or Fitzgerald?
Waste of time these constant motions of no confidence from SF, how many is that? Since when do they give a hoot about the Gardai?? Same old jumping on the bandwagon and making plenty of noise… They would do anything to unstable the country. Sergeant McCabe will hopefully sue the state and get plenty of money for his and his family’s anguish . An unbiased investigation from an independent body should take place and sacking should go right to the top, minister for Justice and the Garda commissioner.
Fianna Fáil keeps it puppet FG in power.It truly is a de facto coalition.
@Tommy Doran: I agree with most of your comments but … ” Same old jumping on the bandwagon and making plenty of noise…” …. this is what the opposition is supposed to do ! And SF are the de facto opposition at this stage,
@watersedge:  well ff said Fitzgerald . That’s what I got from earlier today so why then are they backing her??? By abstaining they are.. think this highlights another blatant absurdity coming from both ff and fg .  They will both do what’s needed to protect each other….
@lavbeer:  FF is certainly not the opposition.Without SF this issue would not be out in the open.
The reality is that FF and FG will support the Gardai no matter what abominations they’re responsible for. And this is fundamentally why FF will back their coalition partners next week. All police forces including our own are a political tool of the ruling class. So in capitalist nations they are routinely deployed as a mechanism to crush the majority working class.This is why the primary Irish parties of capital, FF and FG, are so reluctant to take their enforcers to task in the face of irrefutable evidence of corruption at the top. And it’s why the government folded to the Gardai pay demands last year. The Irish state desperately needs the Gardai onside for the many battles to come as the working class struggles against its exploitation.Any ordinary person who votes for FF, FG, Labour or bogus Independents is complicit in their own exploitation.
@LITTLEONE: Or both.
Kenny=Haughey Light.
” but I don’t deal in endless allegations and hearsay, they’re not valid in my book”.From the ‘man’ who paraded Maria Cahill, who ran away from a court of law in Belfast, to conduct a trial by media through allegations, hearsay innuendo and lies. Fully facililiated by this hypocrite and blatant liar!!!!
Again FF prop up this sham government by abstaining. How are they rising in polls are Irish electorate really so gullible as not to see that FF and FG are one and the same.
Shame on ff. And regarding zappone wtf. We are not idiots
Lies, damn lies and statistics
Could be both in fairness.
@Tony Daly: Not forgetting Alan Farrell’s little (if immature) intervention as he was lauded by an Indo journalist who received Adam’s email to the commissioner. At this stage the commissioner approving the leak (or directly involved)  has credence as her authority wavers. Maurice McCabe is not the biggest fish in this story. But he must at last be looked after.
@jane: they kept it from disappearing by proposing a vote of no confidence. Otherwise, this scandal would have been suppressed by FF and FG.
Ah Tony stop peddling the SF nonsense now, Nothing got to do with SF only they jump on the bandwagon. Do you really think that they care about the Sergeant McCabe? Any excuse to call a no confidence motion.
Ah hear Tony even by SF standards that’s a stretch.
Tommy, that is what you expect from opposition isn’t it? To hold the government to account. If not, it would be quietly swept under the carpet. That goes for any party in opposition be it sf, pbp/aaa, labour, social democrats, greens. They can’t very well leave it to FF, they are incompetent.
@jane:  I’m not with SF but am seriously considering voting for SF at the next GE.I don’t support the dishonesty and corruption of FF and FG.I was old Labour.I’m running out of options.Ask yourself if you really admire what FG and FF are doing?
@Tommy Doran:  I’m not with SF. I’m just sickened to bits by the corruption and malfeasance I’m seeing.FF is turning a blind eye.
Enda k> frances minister> zappone block> commissioner> superintendent> sgt mccabe
Watersedge much prefer an unbiased investigation by an independent body and hopefully get heads rolling from the top, Zappone, Fitzgerald and o Sullivan. Sergeant McCabe deserves this, not to get caught up in a big political storm. The current muppets definitely needs to be held accountable for sure, but this country is too unstable for another GE
@Weakest and sly. Rather that than Ahern any day. FF will buy the electorate again, cosying up to the PS. Then we go bankrupt again and others are left to pick up the pieces. It a recurring tragic comedy. At least Fine Gael are trying to curb spending. Fooking sick and tired of people who thing money grows on trees. It comes from my pocket and I do wish it was spent more wisely. Will vote FG again as the others are feckless idiots.
Well Tony reading your comments for the last couple of days here I could be forgiven for coming to that conclusion. In my opinion they are all as corrupt as each other and that includes SF
@Simon Peters:  a vote for FG is a vote for corruption.
Of course FF are going to abstain..biggest engineers of political stunts and opportunism on the face of the planet. By abstaining and also by not highlighting the Tusla file on Thursday even though they say they knew now, means they support this awful insult to our democracy& state systems thats currently taking place..not to mention the dispicable treatmemt if M McCabe. Man should go down a true leader and inspiration
Fg are great at wasting tax payers money. Irish water. Usc supposed to be temporary. Increase in rental taxes-usc+prsi on top of paye fg are fulk of s**te and backing corruption in the top ranks of the Gardai
Fianna fail are cowards abstaining
The person responsible for the continuing mistreatment of Garda whistle blower mccabe is the Commissioner and her boss the Minister. Simple as. This happened under the Commissioners watch. Enda k. Is so obviously wrong and we can all see it
@ Tony.If you want to avoid dishonesty and corruption that last place you should go is near Sinn Fein..
I know you couldn’t write really. Wonder what does F/F new boy think now, Steven Donnelly what do u think. Ah sur you support the Cowboys now.
Mccabe= salvatore (sauli/pussy) who tried 2ho straight
@Tony Daly: A vote for SF is a recipe for economic disaster. A vote for FF means higher wages and pension for all PS workers. A vote for Independents is a waste of a vote. How will you vote Tony? Is Fine Gael corrupt? How so?
We need to put sf in.in order to purge the corruption.
Good one Bobby. Hilarious.
That would be great Bobby, imagine the picture you would get sitting on Mary Lou’s lap then, wow. You would be so proud, especially you being so obsessed with SF. It would be the last straw for Ireland , rock bottom, lies cover ups and corruption would be on a different level, our economy would die a death. And after all that they want to keep the USC. SF don’t give a duck about Sergeant McCabe, all political gain
Welcome to the most corrupt little country in Europe
@Tony Daly: I agree with you. At this point I think I would vote SF given the current climate as well. The people of Ireland need to mimic the actions of the Romanian people. We need to march and protest against these actions. If we dont our children will be next.. We need to vociferate clearly that these actions are beyond contempt. I am totally in agreement with you in relation to the involvement of government. Its so obvious at this stage. Zappone has latter day involvement. Of that we can be sure.
@jane: Which is?
@Simon Peters: Like we have had nothing but economic excellence under FF, FG, Lab during their times in government?
BUMP ….Of course FF are going to abstain..biggest engineers of political stunts and opportunism on the face of the planet. By abstaining and also by not highlighting the Tusla file on Thursday even though they say they knew now, means they support this awful insult to our democracy& state systems thats currently taking place..not to mention the dispicable treatmemt if M McCabe. Man should go down a true leader and inspiratio
@jane: and tommy you are crazy to live in the current system of corruption shameful actually. to support ff fg is to support sick children in pain and the destruction of good people like Mccabe.I really dont think ye ate well in the head you must have invested interests in ff and fg.
@Bobby Phelan: wonder what McCabe thinks of ff’s abstaining?
Sf have to be the next government there’s no way people will support all this corruption.time for accountability and sf will deliver on that.lets not go through another 5 years of scandal after scandal ff fg labour are making our state miserably.ff fg have no morals they let children live in pain.just like they let the church bugger children and hushed it all up.we need change and we need it now.
@ciaran: if I was mccabe I would be furious at that decision especially when they destroyed his life I dont know how he is holding himself back.
Unlike you Bobby and your obsession with SF I couldn’t care less about any of them. Answer us all this Since when did SF care about Gardai? Ye tried everything to protect the killers of Garda Jerry McCabe? Tried to use the Good Friday agreement to get them off, sitting TD Martin Ferris collected them from jail and worse still gave them a standing ovation at SF Ard Fheis, how sick was that? How about that for corruption. So I don’t think they give a hoot about Sergeant Maurice McCabe.
@Simon Peters: So you condone corruption and the heinous, vindictive, bullying of a Maurice McCabe? FG have shown themselves to the most corrupt party to ever blight this country.
Bobby, Liam Adams sexually abused his daughter and Gerry Adams appointed him as chair of a cumann after he found out. Pierce McCauley one of Garda Gerry McCabe killers got a standing ovavation at a SF and Fheis. How in name can you say what you just did when you know all this. They are just as bad as FF, FG etc. It’s pure spin to suggest otherwise.
You there Bobby? Cat catch your typing fingers?!!!! You go missing at the strangest times…..
@jane: and look what happens now when FG and FF are actually in power.What was done to Sergeant McCabe was intentional and malign.
@Tommy Doran: ah Tommy take your head out of the past and look to the future.do you want your kids to grow up in this crooked state where governments leave children suffer in pain.give sf five years if they cant do it sack them and then go back to your beloved party’s.all I know is the establishment needs a good kick in thehole at the moment they have no respect for our people.STOP thinking about yourself tommy and think about your country.the past is the past nothing can be done about it now.peace is the way forward.
Without doubt Tony but spare me the BS about how it’ll all be different if SF are in charge.
@jane: tell me jane who is the better option.
Oh yeah forget about that murder and put SF in power. Did you give Pearse McCauley a standing ovation and do you support the Garda killers Bobby?? Don’t patronise me about the past, this murder had nothing to do with the troubles, it was a robbery by Sk um bags and they riddled a brave Garda, SF went out of their way to protect the murderers and you said just to forget about it?? How about that for corruption??? Do you support SF stance on this murder and why?? Straight forward question and don’t deflect
@jane: leaving the corrupt in power will worse the situation even further.
@jane: listen jane the northern police force said adams did everything he was supposed to do.Since you want to talk about sexual abuse what about mary boyle and the coverup of her disappearance why did ff interfere in that investigation ?and is fg covering up as well? how many children did the church bugger? and why did it take so long for the truth to come out ?how many lives were destroyed by cronyism and corruption within the fg ff governments down through the years thousands jane but you will criticise adams!You should look in the mirror jane and call yourself a waffler the establishment has being covering up for decades and there bubble is about to pop.The good days are over jane no more corruption no more corruption no more corruption no more corruption.
@Tommy Doran: where the killers put in jail tommy!I  is that not justice being served.How is that corruption.You should stop deflecting from the issues of today tommy.
Bobby you are right about Mary Boyle and you are right about the church and all the cover ups . It’s just a shame you don’t hold SF to the same standards. You’re a hypocrite.
Tony how is replacing one set of corrupt politicians with another set of corrupt politicians going to make things any better?
I’ve managed to stitch the Sergeant McCabe scandal together from a variety of sources.Here is what happened. Senior ranks in the Garda acting on the direction of senior politicians encouraged the making of untrue and entirely false allegations by the daughter of a Garda.Then two prominent crime journalists were recruited to assist.The next step was to prepare the making of the complaint. This was done with the assistance of a counsellor who may or may not have believed the story. Then the story was channeled to the HSE and Tusla who in turn reported the complaints to AGS under mandatory reporting obligations.At this point the confidential was disseminated by the 2 journalists to a variety of other journalists and influential people.When the ground was prepared, Callianan passed on the story to John McGuinness so as to nobble the Oireachtas Inquiry.Now the Department of Justice took over. It was instructed by people close to the Taoiseach to ensure that Sergeant McCabe was discredited. Against the journalists were used. The story was now leaked into the media but the Sergeant was not named. This was addressed by informing over a dozen journalists of the name of Sergeant McCabe. In fairness, Anne Harris of the Sindo and the other editors smelly a rat. The story was now being touted by too many FG Ministers and by John McGuiness who actually believed the story.At this point, there was confidence that Sergeant McCabe had been fully discredited. The attack dogs were pulled back but now the rumours were in wide circulation.It was a scheme consisting of senior politicians, crime journalists with a cisybrelationship with An Garda Station, HSE , Tusla and An Garda Siochana,Now no one knows anything. FF has run for cover.
@jane: you are confusing actual corruption with potential corruption.
@Tommy Doran: i have no obsession with sf you have.I just think mary and pearse would do a better job of running this state their more educated then ff fg and liebour and the best thing is they can add.Ff fg could do with the dail calculator might help them a bit with their fiscal space!
Well Tony maybe you believe SF are not corrupt but I don’t and I think at best you’re being naive.
@jane: sf are the only party that ever gets criticised in this country jane they are always made accountable by the establishment when ever they need deflecting from their own corruption.! The standard lies with you jane how do you put up with the corruption from ff fg is beyond me.Ff fg = pain.
@jane: superintendent Taylor and journalists have now exposed the scheme to destroy Sergeant McCabe.  The corruption is not just confined to senior ranks in AGS.Fitzgerald has compromised herself although she arrived late into the scandal.Jane, distract and divert all you like but your efforts are ineffective.
@jane: you keep deflecting. Interesting.
Jane, I see that you are staying well clear of the topic if the article and ignoring the Sergeant McCabe scandal. I don’t trust your motives. I don’t think that your comments are made in good faith.
I’m not deflecting anything and to be honest that’s always the SF supporters go to response and it’s patheticMaurice McCabe was stitched up in the worst way possible and I genuinely think this should be more than enough to spark an election. At the very least Kenny, Zappone, Fitzgerald and O’Syllivan should be gone and a criminal investigation launched. I don’t expect any of them to do the right thing and stand down so I think FF should show us some of this ‘change’ they are suppose to have undergone and back the motion of no confidence. I think if they don’t pull the plug over this that 11 point lead they supposedly have will dissolve.
Sorry Bobby but issues like the Jerry McCabe murder does influence me and the Electrate. Never could get a straight forward answer from the SF faithful like yourself.I for one have no love for any of the parties FF  FG SF or Labour. Really hope that Maurice McCabe sues the state and get his just rewards. I also hope that the powers to be get their P45 sooner rather than later, Fitzgerald, O Sullivan and Zappone. A disgusting debacle.Bobby I asked you a very straight forward question and asked you not to deflect but you did. I will ask again Bobby, Do you support SF stance on the Garda Killers? Where they did everything in their power to get them out of jail and you agree with the standing ovation given at SF Ard Fheis?Did you support the Garda killers Bobby? I Can’t see past SF’s carry on with Jerry McCabe murder and can’t understand some peoples blind loyalty.
@jane: thank you for addressing the Sergeant McCabe issue and for not continuing to play politics with the issue.
Another stock response, well done.
Tommy I’d like to see an election, i think it’s warranted considering how bad this mess is. They won’t stand down of their own accord. Don’t know what it is about Irish politicians but they never go without being pushed.
My opinion Jane would be what would be the point of an election again, this country is economically vulnerable and could destabilise it completely and set us back years and into recession again, it’s taken us years to get to where we now are following the worst possible recession. I would not credit the current government whatsoever but I can’t see where there is an alternative as one is as bad as the other. It took so long to put the current muppets in government that it can’t be good for us.The Maurice McCabe debacle is disgusting and goes right to the top. An Totally independent investigation by an unbiased entity to get the full story. Can’t stand the sight of them all running for cover, Fitzgerald,Zappone and O Sullivan should be the first of many to lose their jobs as they are 100% out of their depth. Don’t want to see the whole debacle turn into a political time bomb as Maurice McCabe and his family do not deserve this, his cause would get totally lost in the mire of politics. But heads should roll but current government has no bottle whatsoever.
@Enda Ireland: But which end is which? I can see now why the French had a revolution?
It seems that FF and FF supporters prefer to turn a blind eye to FG malfeasanace and accept the right of FG to hound and to target a principled Garda Sergeant.Frances Fitzgerald even denies being informed by Jim Callaghan, the FF spokesmanThe old reliable Irish tolerance for low standards in high places has kicked in.Nobody knows anything. Just a series of unfortunate mistakes.
When the opposition is compromised in a democracy, democracy is rendered sick.
Ask yourself who would have the power and influence to manage to get Tusla, HSE, external counselling services, An Garda Siochana and Government Ministers to make so many so called “mistakes”?
Ignorance is not acceptable defence in law so why should it be here? A Garda is meeting with another minister other than the minister for justice and Fitzgerald didn’t ask what it was about? A well know whistle blower is meeting with the minister for children and Kenny doesn’t ask why? That’s not even going into the actual heinous charges against McCabe.  Heads must role.
@Deborah Behan: put in those terms, it is impossible to believe Kenny or Fitzgerald. It just does not add up.
It seems Ms Zappone has been telling plenty of porkies to the public and her cabinet colleagues.
@John Smith: the alternative is more plausible. She disclosed what was happening to those who were actually directing what was happening without being aware that they were directing this smear campaign on Sergeant McCabe
@John Smith: Zappy’s not the only one telling lies/fudging as it’s clear that IndaKinny and his BlueBlouse crony Frances are spinning fairytales as well!
@John Flanagan: exactly!
It’s more likely that Zappone has spun so many lies she can’t remember what the truth is.
@John Smith: it’s nice and complacent to stop with Zappone.  This goes much higher.
FG are desperate to off load this on Zappone… the ENTIRE mess. She’s not a 100% innocent in this but this whole mess has being going on a lot longer than she’s been minister.
@John Smith:  specifically, Kenny and Fitzgerald are involved in the smear campaign.  That is why they pretend that they know nothing  and no one told them anything.
@John Smith: IndaKinny’s much worse! Remember his versions of the man with 2 pints in his hand or his talk with a vagrant on the Merrion Square park bench for 20 mins? Pfft…all lies of course!
Tony I’m not opposed to that suggestion but we need something a bit more than comment section speculation before we fire up the torches and grab the pitch forks. It’s clear at this point that Zappone is guilty.
@John Smith: it’s clear at this stage. Your just keeping the mantra going.. throw zappone under the bus absolving kenny, Fitzgerald and co.  It’s shameful. They all deserve going under the bus…
@John Smith: no it is not clear and your remark is clearly and obviously agenda driven.It is implausible and simply incredible that Fitzgerald and Kenny did not know what was going on. The falsified allegations of sexual abuse have been in wide circulation for a long time.Always be suspicious when people who obviously know something, whose job it is to know something, suddenly start protesting that they know nothing.
“The Taoiseach says he isn’t ruling out a criminal investigation into the Tusla saga.”The WHOLE damn scandal needs a FULL investigation.
@Unitedpeople: this is democracy ff/fg style, sickening they cover for each other now
Enda=junior. Frances=tony soprano. Commissioner=pauli.
Ahhh yes, the old private meeting defence.
The good old “Plausible deniabilty” defence, great leadership Enda.
Plausible deniability in this case equates to admitting incompetence . It’s his job to know. Saying he didn’t know also means he’s not fit for the job.
I heard that interview. The stuttering, the pauses, the mumbling before he gave a reply, one would have to think he was making up a carefully thought out deflective response to the question.I would go further and suggest it may have been a porkie!!Listen to it yourself and make up your own mind.
FF/FG.  Two cheeks same corrupt arse.
FG/FF have been using the guards as their personal heavies for decades. They are as much to blame for their behavior as the guards themselves. As for Enda, the words compulsive and liar spring to mind .
So he knows nothing and is going to do nothing! Why the hell is he Taoiseach then?
The Protected Disclosures Officer knew all about the fake sexual abuse allegations, nearly every journalist in the political arena knew about the fake allegations, John McGuinness kept telling everyone who would listen about the false allegations.So we are meant to believe that only Kenny and Fitzgerald knew nothing about the allegations.Now ask yourself what Kenny and Fitzgerald are so anxious to pretend that they knew nothing.
Unfortunately Katherine Zappone has been called out of the country (to visit relatives in the US)The minister will be back on Irish soil when the furore dies down ..sorry..when her holiday is over.
Let ms open borders zappone stay there
The wheels on the bus go round and round !!!!
Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin has claimed his party told the Tánaiste about Tusla’s role on Wednesday – 24 hours before it first emerged in the media. However, Tánaiste Frances Fitzgerald has insisted this evening that Fianna Fáil’s Jim O’Callaghan did not mention Tusla’s role in the scandal when he met her on Wednesday night. The Tanaiste said she only learned the details the scandal through media reports 24 hours later.The Tánaiste said, “Deputy O’Callaghan said to me that Prime Time would have a programme the following evening related the establishment of the Commission,” she said. “At no point did he mention Tusla or any of the details that emerged in the programme.”Which one of them is lying?
@Super Ted: poor, poor Frances. No one tells her anything. She knows nothing at all.
Well looks like our minister of fg commissioners could be telling porkies perhaps? After the treatment of mccabe her position is untenable.
It is like rats scuttling around.
“Private Capacity”??? What did he think they were doing? Going for a latte and a game of pool?
The public deserve better.time for GE,will FF do the right thing.
@@mdmak33:  FF and right thing don’t go together.. they will do what’s needed to keep the charade going.. will they back Maurice MC cabe and his call for criminal investigation.
@John Smith: good to see you talking nonsense again.. do you personally know me? Because you haven’t a clue who I am. So go back into what ever corner you crawled out of.   Go back playing with her toys …
@John Smith:  no comment on actually MC cabe or criminal investigation??? No just childish rant .
@John Smith:  how do you know anything about me? Your just talking nonsense.   Childish rant… Get your mammy to check under your bed and in your wardrobe for you.   Good lad….
@John Smith: still no comment John on MC cabe or criminal investigation??? No..   that figures.
@John Smith:  Because I don’t like what the government does? Because I find the homeless crisis a disgrace? Because I find that rolling out red carpet for vulture funds and giving them charitable status is wrong ? Because I find the disgraceful and shameful way the health service is ? Because I was disgusted at disabilities services being cut and that  same amount that was giving out in the water bribe as disgusting?  Among other things . I hate to disappoint you doesn’t make me a shinner.   It makes me some one disgusted at what transpired in this country under decades of mismanagement, cronyism, corruption and I put all parties in the hat for that who are responsible.. I unlike you don’t have preference for any particular party . I just won’t tolerate cronyism, corruption, etc and I don’t care you or what party is responsible for it. You keep your blinkers on and keep firing out nonsense about people that you nothing about Because it’s common theme , shout shinner , shout shinner. It’s childish , it’s ridiculous and it’s laughable.
What would you like me to comment on specifically? I’ve already posted several comments on this unfolding scandal.
@John Smith:  you have to keep pointing the finger at Zappone in a feeble damage limitation attempt but you fail to realise that we are not gullible enough to believe you.
The last party LittleOne’s politics line up in my opinion are with are SFs… He/She had the keyboard worn out supporting Trump during the US election… definitely not the actions of a dyed in the wool “shinner” or anyone to the left for that matter.
@John Smith: oh you mean your comments above, where you just blame zappone and absolve Kenny and Fitzgerald…. Want her thrown under the bus and not the rest… That’s hardly constructive.Here you go…Do you agree and back Maurice MC cabe that a criminal investigation is needed?Do you believe Kenny, Fitzgerald and government ?Do you believe the commissioner should stay in the job?Do you think the government especially Kenny and Fitzgerald are either lying or they are incompetent Because it has to be one or the other after all they are the taoiseach and justice minister and it’s their job to know?
I have little time for Enda Kenny or Frances Fitzgerald and would gladly see them out on their ear to prevent them continuing to drag the country to the left. However at this point it is only entirely clear what Zappone is guilty of.
@James: do you personally know me?  As for trump … Because I didn’t like clinton. What she stood for doesn’t make me a trump supporter either. Pity you didn’t read everything I wrote Because if you did you would have seen I actually preferred and hoped it would have been Bernie Sanders. Must say I am flattered,  I have anyomous people watching my comments so well.    You don’t comment on actual article but just on me… Why is that????Please tell James????
@John Smith: dragging the country to the left!! Who is writing your lines?
@John Smith: so your reply is throw zappone under the bus… That figures.. no comment on MC cabe . Criminal investigation or any of the other questions… Good bye John. It’s obvious your game and I ain’t playing.
@LITTLEONE: yeah, sadly he is one of those political weasels.
@James: I found his intense support of Trump puzzling also as all his other commentary suggest he is a dyed in the wool hardcore left winger in the Sinn Fein mould.
Eh… because it was difficult to miss. You were on some articles hundreds of times… In fact a lot of the comments sections were made up of just you making comment after comment from morning to night…. It’s a public forum so you’re perfectly free to do so just as I’m free to read it.
@Tony Daly… Funny enough his first reply to me along with James above was not about actual article or comment I made but a personal comment about me.. that tells me all I need to know about these people that they are only on for one reason.   Discredit the comment and person while ignoring the actual article … Something funny about some people
As evidenced by above comments……
@LITTLEONE: he is doing his level best to distract from Sergeant McCabe.These slugs crawl out into daylight occasionally and then ooze  back in.
Obvious they have been well schooled.   Discredit and distract and go off topic..  you can see who both are standing firm behind clearly..
@LITTLEONE: exactly. They are too obvious.
@John Smith: are you directly involved in the campaign to crucify Sergeant McCabe? It sounds like you are a man on a mission, an evil mission. I must check you out.
@John Smith:  blank Facebook account, I see. I’m reporting it to Facebook as a fake account.
John Smith. Why don’t you answer littleone’s questions. Or do you just want to deflect??
@John Smith: Kenny is accountable for Zappone !!!!
@@mdmak33: They haven’t, have they?
Not credible in any way whatsoever. The biggest Garda scandal in the history of the state, and neither the Taoiseach nor Minister for Justice asked the Minister for Children about a meeting with the whistleblower central to the scandal, amid (now known to be false) rumours of him in relation to children??No more credible than the series of unlikely ‘coincidences’ which all happened to the person who just so happened to Maurice McCabe.
@For Connolly: ahh shure, no one told us nothing, nutin’ at all. Kept us totally in the dark.  It was one of dem word processing type computher mishtakes.Shute did I not shakes hands with him.
If you are a public representative nothing you do with persons of note is a private matter
Rotten to the core,
Can we now package Zappone up and DHL her back to the states?
@KrusadingKarl: you are being suckered into thinking that it is her. Look at Fitzgerald and Kenny instead.
@KrusadingKarl: “Can we now package Zappone up and DHL her back to the states?”Make sure the package is clearly labelled “Scapegoat”
Very possibly, Tony, very possibly. However she does have a knack for popping up around unpopular happenings… as is the American way.
@KrusadingKarl: she does not know how to handle herself in the snake pit. She ended talking to the person who was directing operations.
This is the natural and inevitable consequence of political policing which is conducted through successive Ministers for Justice by the Taoiseach of the day.
It’s amazing how Enda sounds just like Trump with his alternative facts. Zappone is doing a great job. Caught fiddling expenses in her first week and now this. New politics – drain the swamp. Who can spot the difference?
@Anne Marie Devlin: for Trump and Kenny, truth is a disposable commodity. Truth is what they pretend it to be.
OOOOOooooo Right a private matter you say .Well now who would thought that.
@Vincent Sharpe:  a private meeting about official Garda business.
Meeting in a “private capacity”?  So they were old friends then? No? Maybe neighbours, needing to talk about the upcoming tidy towns competition? No? Then what was the private connection between these two?
Why is Minister Zappone not at work?
@marg fitzgerald:She’s visiting relatives in the US.
@marg fitzgerald: She’d better be or her ministerial career is toast! All thanks to Lying Kinny & BlueBlouse Fitzy…
@rudy. Is that true? She’s run away instead of staying and doing her job in this time of crisis
@Anne Marie Devlin:Yes. Even her spokesperson is refusing to answer questions. She’s running for cover as her only option is resign or bring the government down.
@marg fitzgerald: It’s Sunday.
Those commentst just makes it even worse.  Unless Zappone and Mccabe were old friends going back years having a catch up absolutely nothing about a government minister meeting a  prominent whistlebowler is a private matter. The governments response to this latest Garda saga shows they are either trying to cover things up or are else incredibly stupid.  In either case we should be very worried.
@Ronan Donnelly: it is obvious that it was an attempted cover up which went wrong.
FF back in power soon .. On and on we go ….Sad…
When Enda Kenny chopped down the cherry tree in the back garden, he blamed it on his neighbour, the fellow with the 2 pints.
Im glad the taoiseach has cleared the matter up. I think we can all agree its time to move on with the business of the recovery now. lol
Even trump could come up with a more credible excuse. What an insult to all citizens.
Has Calamity Zappone claimed Political Asylum in the USA when we all thought she was going to tear up her US passport at Mr Trumps ban on the 7 countries considering she has gone back to the States for a visit.On whose countries passport is she travelling on?
@Ben Moylan: look over there. Typical distracting device.
i don’t believe Fitzgerald.I don’t believe Kenny.I don’t believe Commissioner O’Sullivan.
Ends kenny is a primary school teacher
@JG: Correct – he is still accruing pension entitlements and his job is held open for him.
This gets worse by the hour!The meeting was in “a private capacity”?? Let’s think this through.That means that the McCabes did not actually officially meet with the Minister at all…they met with Ms. Zappone as a private citizen. So there would be no reason for her Departmental officials to attend? Neither woud there be an official record of the meeting having taken place nor any minutes officially available?All very strange and irregular. Curiouser and curiouser!!Somewhat reminiscient of the time the former commissioner retired prematurely.http://jrnl.ie/2305342If the papers were personal they should not have been in the office and if they related to the office of the Commissioner they should not have been shredded.
Just Enda k covering f zappone who is covering for the minister who is covering for the commissioner
FiannaFail have disgraced themselves again.They are propping up a corrupt Government.
Bullshit.. either gross incompetence or gross deception.. someone is telling porkies!!!
You’re a failure Kenny, time to go.
@Trevor Beale: if he was merely a failure, I would forgive him.He is a thundering disgrace.He was complicit in the campaign against Sergeant McCabe. He sides with the attackers of Sergeant McCabe. He is instructing and hindering a criminal prosecution.
@Tony Daly: obstructing and hindering a criminal investigation and a consequent criminal prosecution.
Do we not prosecute people everyday based in witness evidence.. 3 whistle blowers, legal council testimony and 2 serving members admitting their roles under orders.. That’s witnesses from both sides and 2 in the middle saying campaign to destroy individuals. Prema facia evidence all week long. Prosecute them. Now.
People have been convicted based on testimony of Gardai and not much else. The irony is not lost here.
The tragic irony was that Zappone was talking to the very people who were out to destroy Sergeant McCabe.
Fianna fail abstain, yet you yes you will vote for lads who have made a mockery of government, hate the living shit out of politics here.
He didn’t ask what the meeting was about. As you don’t. Yeah. Right. Liar!
Of course he didn’t ask.. that part I believe…it’s why he didn’t ask I’m having a problem with.
I feel nothing but contempt for the senior politicians, senior Gardai and the senior people in the agencies involved. If we let these contemptible away with this, the rule of law will mean nothing.We have a corrupt and malevolent government happy to attempt to destroy a conscientious and dutiful Gard-.
Fianna Fail are colluding with FG in this scandal.FF has no backbone.FF are just as bad as FG.
@Tony Daly:Fianna Fail are worse. It’s because of them the country went bankrupt
@Tony Daly: Now we know for sure FG and FF are in coalition.  There is absolutely no excuse to prop up a lying, vindictive, bullying government, not on this issue. FF are endorsing the the disgusting treatment Maurice McCabe has received at the hands of FG led governments.What has come through in the comments here on this issue today is that nearly everyone, even commenters who would never agree with each other, are totally against the government on their handling of this issue. People are sickened by what has been done to Maurice McCabe.FG and FF will lie, spin and stonewall their way out of this one, and expect people to believe them.
@Dave Doyle:  I endorse your comment. The politicians have combined against the electorate.At the same time, I have to admit that I expected no better of FF, the failed fffers.
@Tony Daly: I wan’t was hoping, along with many others, that FF would do the decent, honourable thing, and vote against or nail their colours to the mast, and vote for, the government.Don’t be surprised if there’s a Flip Flop yet.I cant wait to hear the excuses.
@Dave Doyle: birds of a feather flock together.
@Dave Doyle: ” I wan’t was hoping, along with many others, that FF would do the decent, honourable thing” … that;s the action. The reaction is what ? Surely that is part of the problem ?
An independent and  honest Commissioner, acting with integrity and probity, would have ordered on her own initiative a criminal investigation of those who sought to subvert justice and bring about a malicious prosecution of an honest and principle Garda Sergeant.It is the fact alone that Commissioner O’Sullivan is impeding a criminal prosecution which disqualifies her from continuing in office.Commissioner O’Sullivan is part of the problem; she is an obstruction to a solution.
It is a drastic and a terrible way to expose the truth but the DPP could prosecute Sergeant McCabe in a public trial and flush out into the public all those involved and in particular the senior politicians who have sought to subvert justice.Sergeant McCabe is entirely innocence to. The so called evidence against him is trumped up and fabricated but is time to allow the decent man his vindication and to destroy those who have attacked him with such contumely.Of course it would be a show trial,but it would be a mechanism to get full disclosure and discovery under pain of contempt of court.It’s time to identify the nasty and cowardly people who have tried to destroy Sergeant McCabe.
@Tony Daly: wheres mehole martin and the great and the good in ff? with kenny on the missing list it seemsdon’t need a judge to tell me o Sullivan is guiltyI remember her bizzare answer to a question she was not asked at a pac meeting, one liner two fingers
@ciaran: I remember that well. She has pulled down the shutters, having learned the fine art of avoiding self incrimination.What we have here is blatant political policing.
FiannaFail and Fine Gael, united by a common lack of integrity and an absence of even a mild pretence at probity.
FG/FF/FG/FF/FG….No difference as they are all corrupt incompetent liars who have used the Gardai as their personal army of ruthless illegal enforcers for their neo liberal anti social policies. Neither party want to upset the country folk who supply the dumm fodder for this defunct police agency.
One thing is sure.The Garda Commissioner will not initiate a criminal investigation.
Where is paddy pearse aka tommy mcdonagh aka dane has he been banned??
There should have been a criminalinvestigation long ago into the false and malicious politically motivated and politically directed allegations against Sergeant McCabe.The miscreants have been allowed to cover their tracks.
No surprise as Mehole Martin is a traitor to his country & always will be. He’s still the same ol’ weasel who kept licking Biffo’s drunken a r s e a long way back when this country almost got bankrupted – all thanks to the wretched FF/Green Party coalition government at the time!
@John Flanagan:  he has shown his true colours, the yellow stripe down his back.
How long will it be before the “man holding two pints” makes an appearance??? He usually shows up when Enda gets himself in a fix.
Utterly spineless
FF the party of no balls and no leader, FF FG and labour are all cut from the one cloth, Francis Fitzpatrick  on a week in politics saying Sinn Fein walked away from power sharing in the north and they want FF to do the same here, SF walked away because of serious corruption  within the DUP and not wanting the truth to come out, do you not see FG at the same.
Typical Fianna Fáil
Radi g the comments, there appears to be almost unanimous outrage and fury but the politicians will not listen.
Reading the comments, I see a consensus of dismay and nausea over the appalling behaviour of our elected politicians. They disgust me.
Contrast Micheal Martin and Sergeant McCabe.
Clearly everybody knows nothing about anything, and even if they previously knew something, of which they now have no recollection, which can neither be confirmed or denied this particular circumstance, clearly anything which anyone did or didn’t do in this situation was in a private capacity and without the knowledge of the Taoiseach. Nothing to see here, move along! Yes, Minister!
@David Van-Standen:I have absolutely no recollection of ever having made that remark (even though there were ten other people in the room)
An Garda Siochana should conduct a criminal investigation. Senior politicians, including the Taoiseach, should be within the ambit of that criminal investigation.
Hold on, GSOC tried
@Fiona Fitzgerald: pretended to try.
There was a time I would have thought this was an extraordinary sequence of events. Minister for Children zapone notifies Enda and Francis that she is about to meet Garda Sergeant Maurice McCabe, who fortunately for him, records meetings with the higher ups! Francis says that’s nice while Enda suggests she make a comprehensive note of the meeting. Neither of them think to ask how she got on, and Zapone states she kept the relevant people informed, but declines to divulge who she spoke to or what was discussed to the citizens who pay her wages and entertain her jaunts around the leafy lanes! Despite it now being critical to understand if, why and who is being misled. FF Michael Martin huffs and puffs but declines the opportunity to blow the House down. Based on yesterday’s Poll he is probably doing us all a favour! The end result, yet another pointless enquiry to kick the can down the road
@Jarlath Murphy: it really does sound truly awful and so bad it is unbelievable.
@Tony Daly: If you were to write all this out as part of a novel, and send if off to a publisher, it would come back with a note….. ‘please edit….it’s too far fetched’.
Surely that’s it for FFs apparent resurgence with voters.
@Andy Wallace:  unless they admire a total lack of integrity.
Fianna Fáil endorses political corruption of Fine Gael.
Would you believe it … FF support corruption..
@Diarmuid Hehir:  yes, not only do they practice it themselves, they admire it in others.
FF happy enough to support this corrupt & in competent government – the people can see ourselves in SF fighting corruption North & South. We are the real opposition
out with Fitzgerald, O’sullivan, Kenny. FF still in the gutter
Fianna Fáil has been bought off.
@Tony Daly: You sound like a YFGer Tony …..
@lavbeer: if you really read my comments you would know that I detest both  FG and FF.
@Tony Daly: I know you do Tony.  The politics of No is easy. I do read your comments. I am not always in your camp but I know you know  that the buy-off comment is too simplistic.
@lavbeer:  I recognise self interest. Kenny and Martin have worked out a deal.If you don’t say no to corruption, poltucs is just a game of self interest.
Corruption rules.
There goes Fianna Fáil chances of being in government alone
@The Red Devil:  they are in Government and FG does what it is told to do or not to do by FF.FF is the puppet master.FG is the puppet.
@The Red Devil: that was never a possibility.
FF will continue to prop up this crowd until they’ve fooled enough idiots into voting for them
FF set up a Govt Minister who was likely to be a contender to replace Edna and take her out.They make a great play about ‘standards’, putting themselves in a stronger position.While Edna stays in place to deal with the fallout they ensure he’ll be still FG leader when they spring the Trap.They’re some shower of Me Feiners.
Wanted – One large pliers to pull the splinters out of ff ar@ses – fence sitting and job minding shower!
What’s going on,what is the issue fg are covering up for FF#maryboyle murder?
This is one of the most vile scandals we have had – well, if you discount the sustained torture and murder of children and women in our institutions. Three government agencies colluded to depict this man as a rapist of children., to destroy him because he dared to speak out against wrongdoing in the gardai. And now we have an ‘opposition’ party refusing to stand against them. What does that say about us as a nation?
It means he is lying through his teeth and nothing else.
The Truth will come out , said no Irish Politician ever
Too all those muppets who have placed Fianna Fáil with an eleven point lead and Fine Gael second in an opinion poll, you really haven’t been paying attention for the past ten years.
It’s  very simple folks, just do not under any circumstances whatsoever give your vote to either Fine Gael, Fianna Fail, or Labour, they are absolutely rotten to the core, self-serving parasites who have decimated this country during their tenure over the years, who oh why are people so bloody stupid to keep voting for them is beyond me, just vote for someone else,. radical change h and reform has to happen, we are never going to get this with these corrupt parties, it’s just like a vicious merry go around with them, power hungry parasites with their snouts in the trough.
What’s the pay off for Fianna Fáil?
At least it’s a warning to people that FF haven’t changed, as they are complicit in this by supporting the government
Fianna Fail Your decision to abstain in the vote of confidence is a dereliction of duty as elected representatives. In doing so you are facilitating those in Government to continue to attack the integrity of our Justice system – Mr McCabe treatment is now  Endorsed by your decision and an insult to the people of this state. Yet again FF make a decision based on your partys self interest.Appalling stuff — Tim
I see that no one has picked up yet on the innuendo of the Minister for Chikdren meeting Sergeant McCabe. These malevolents know about how to act with maxi,um destructive effect.
The political
The political system is so screwed up in its own deceit and incompetence it makes willy wonkas chocolate factory real to life.
Get them out!!!!
Fuanna Fail admire the Taoiseach and the Commissioner.
This guy has a way with words only himself could understand
Lies lies and more lies
FG is the pankyFF is the hanky.FG and FF are the hanky panky.
FF are letting Maurice & his family down
@trebloc01: And anyone who votes for either FF or FG is an idiot.
FFIt’s either gggg now or get off the pot.Let SF take over as alternative Gov
FF grow a pair of bulluks.
Fianna Fáil fence sitting – what a spineless bunch.
Shower of spineless buck passing incompetents.
FF/FG TRAITORS..TIME FOR CHANGE PEOPLE..OR WE GET WHAT WE DESERVE..YOU CHOOSE.
Ah Surprise Suprise. Traitors to the End
When first the politicians practice to deceive, what a tangled web they weave.
There a joke the whole lot of them
@Dan Henry: Could be worse, Enda might be asking Micheal to pull his finger?
Deputy O’Callaghan knows what going to be on Prime Time because his sister obviously gives him a heads up.
FF, as corrupt and inept as FG.
Gangtas paradise.crooks stick together.
Why blame the government. The Gardai who are one of the best paid in Europe are useless. The top administration are as stupid as the workforce. Spare me the ‘putting lives on the line’ bullcrap. Good for Passport photos and speeding fines.
@Simon Peters: our Garda force has been corrupted and undermined by political policing, achieving through politucial penetration of An Garda Siochana,
Lies lies and more lies it never ends
If the misery of the people be caused not by the laws of nature, but by our institutions, great is our sin Charles Darwin #Health,housing,policing,Crisis’ FIANNA Fail, the party of complicity of the above by doing nothing to stop it.
Thing is when the lessons in Integrity & Morality are coming from Sinn Fein even many of those who think the government & Fianna Fáil are in the wrong will smirk.
In other news, Fianna Fail TDs to hold all night vigil in front of Leinster House in memory of their balls.
Why is nobody asking what happened to the person who made the false allegation in the first place. It is an offence, punishable by imprisonment, to make such a false allegation against an innocent person. If this case was not referred to the DPP, TUSLA should be asked to explain why not? Is it the policy of TUSLA to just  put cases of false allegations away in filing cabinets? Answers please, Mr. McBride!
Senior FG politicians, Senior Gardai, 2 crime journalists, a junior ranking Garda, his daughter and civil servants in HSE and Tusla all conspired against Sergeant McCabe.
If we let them they will just leave this as another internal investigation until something big distracts the masses. Heads need to roll.
Goodness, Goodness, Goodness.All the SF trolls are working today – Littleone, For Connolly, Tony Daly, Ray Farrelly, Mdmac33, JimmyMac etc etc etc.Good men yourselves. Hope you are being well paid for Sunday work.
@Bull Spite:  I am not with SF.Your inability to see wrong in what has happened shows that you are morally blind and tolerant of corruption.
@Bull Spite: There are people commenting here who wouldn’t give SF the time of day, never mind a vote. They condemn what the government has done to Maurice McCabe. There is right and wrong, and people can see this for what it is.
@Dave Doyle:  that is exactly the point! Well said.
@Tony Daly: Well done to the SF red thumbers! You are very good boys!
@Bull Spite: The aptly named troll. Believes political interference in a fair and just police force that treats everybody equally, is OK, he is happy with political policing, that goes way beyond f.g/f.f  t.D’s and cllrs getting the oul blind eye to drink driving, speeding, driving while on the phone and the rumour mill throwing out rumour and spurious allegations about anybody not in the golden circle, looking to get involved in politics. But when somebody blows the whistle and this exposes the level of corruption and just how low f.f and f.g will go to blacken an innocent persons name. How many other public servants have been treated like this. Is this how promotions are determined in public service.F.f and f.g are both equally corrupt and were happy to share the spoils. The support by f.f in government with f.g is because they don’t have a problem with corruption.
@Bull Spite: you are part of the miasma of corruption.
@Tony and Joe: You are great guys to troll but not so great at reading!!Have a look and let me know where I wrote about the McCabe issue. Your fake news is typical of SF.Keep up the work as dictate by the good republicans.
@Bull Spite:  you are deflecting from Sergeant MCabe because of ulterior motives.
@Tony Daly: As well as being a troll you seem to be a mind reader. Can you explain my “ulterior motives”. Go on – good man”.Unlike you I don’t support any party: –  FG and Labour are not competent – FF broke the country  – SF destroyed many peoples lives and protect child abuser and murderers – AAA/PDP are only for the unemployed – independents are irrelevant.
They would…
Maybe its just me but Nobody seems to give a thought about the young girl caught in the midst of all this. If she was 6 in 2006 she is 16 or17 now.Whether she was put into the middle of this or was just seeking help 4 years ago, it must surely now be the most vulnerable place to be in the middle of a media storm with high stakes politics and ruthless characters. You can be sure in a small town they probably know her by name but nobody dare mention that because you might be seen to be against the current narrative. She is as much let down by the system , she obviously went to seek help, she is now subtly vilified by association in the media and no similar outrage or sympathy is put out there because its an inconvenient truth against the wanted narrative of conspiracy. It must make every vulnerable adult feel like the system is rotten.Children First- Its ok to be not ok , yea yea, not in Eire,  we’ll bulldoze you first to get where we want to go and then make the nice adverts later.
@Albert Brennerman….I think there are many, many people that haven’t lost sight of the little girl at the centre of this. If she was 6 years old and manipulated by her father to lie about something as serious as sexual abuse than he should be jailed. What he’s done is not only immoral and disgusting , it’s illegal. He should be charged with child abuse. If she came back again to report more serious abuse when she was 14, then her father is guilty again of an even greater crime. If she made allegations that are unfounded and a lie, the system hasn’t let her down – the person that coerced her has. It lies fairly and squarely at his feet, no one else. It’s not fair to say in Eire ‘we’ll bulldoze you first to get where we want..’ because that is not the case.
@Em Ni Mhurchu:With respect to you, I would agree with you if that what has occurred but your assuming.As far as everything I have read in the media and I had to search hard to find is thatA girl went to a counselor in 2013 in confidence at 14 yrs of age to receive, help, this is the original girl from 2006 and from it emerged a report that was completely inaccurate and damaging and totally not in line with what the girl had actually discussed , the content of her confidential session which is now the focus of a national scandal. She herself from what I have read made no allegation.At her age , she to me is at risk and as much of a victim as anyone involved.
We need Labour to  mark SF because FF are playing games
dictated
F F sitting on the fence again get some guts
Come on FF GROW A PAIR
FF need to get off the fence and call for a criminal investigation. Whistleblowers need to be supported.
The real question is: Who is driving the bus?
Fianna Fáil… Possibly the most spineless bar-stards ever created
I am sorry but the whole saga is collusion and cover up by our Government and Government institutions.
We all know how this will play out. Kenny will squirm his way out of this using his usual tactics like the corrupt little slug that he is. He’ll promise a tribunal or investigation which will of course end up a dead end as the whole system (legal, political and whatever else) is rotten to the core.
FF , Forget Facts party , party before people !
